[music]
Don't chase this market. Let it come to
you.
>> The question isn't will the market be
healthy, but will it remain [music]
bifurcated?
>> There are legitimate questions about
valuations.
>> I do think that the market is doing
negative on the economic outlook.
>> If you get any more downdraft in
technology, it's going to [music] be
hard to rally through the end of the
year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
[music] Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance [music] starts right now.
Coming into Tuesday, the sell-off
deepens. Equity futures pointing to the
longest losing streak [music] since
August as a shakeout in Japan sends the
Nikkay to its worst day since April.
[music] A breakdown in sentiment leading
to Bitcoin briefly breaking below 90K.
The risk aversion continues to simmer
>> and it's changed its tone. [music] It's
not just locked up in the high-f flyers
and nonprofitable tech stocks. some of
the more speculative [music] bets. This
has broadened out to travel stocks
yesterday. Herz, Avis, Expedia, all down
10% or more in the past three [music]
trading sessions. CarMax down almost 7%.
You're seeing across the board this
weakness that's pervading the American
economy [music] beyond just a big tech
story. And it raises a question about
what's going on. Does it have to do with
the Fed? Does it have to do [music] with
big tech? Or does it have to do with
momentum?
>> The consumer at Home Depot not coming to
the record rescue. Their stock is down
in a pre-market by 2%. And it's a
downside surprise on earnings from Home
Depot on sales. And this line stands
out, Brammo. An expected increase in
demand in the third quarter did not
materialize.
>> Yeah. Talking about how the full year
earnings per share growth is probably
going to be down about 6%. [music] They
saw previously down only about 3%. This
highlights the conundrum for uh the
White House and frankly [music] more
broadly for economists. Can this economy
recover without the housing sector? Can
this economy recover without all of the
spending that comes with either having a
new home or renovating? And Home Depot
is the poster child of exactly [music]
how much that pain is transpiring? Is
this a consumer issue? Is this a housing
issue? Are these one [music] and the
same?
>> The stock is down by 2% at Downside
Surprise. Home Depot coming out this
morning. Target tomorrow. Walmart after
that. Let's talk about spending. Some
[music] serious spending and a lot of
debt come into the debt market. We have
had $18 billion from Oracle. Meta
delivering $30 billion of debt. Alphabet
[music] about 25 in the last 24 hours.
15 billion dollars of debt coming from
Amazon. [music]
>> The numbers are racking up and you're
seeing the concern start to uh lift a
little bit of the spreads [music] at
least in investment grade corporate debt
world as well as in high yield. There is
a feeling that the spending initially
was coming from the cash coffers of some
of the big [music] tech giants. Now it's
changing. Now suddenly it's coming from
the debt markets. It's raising concerns
not because the hyperscalers [music]
can't pay it back but where else is the
leverage building and I would just like
to note that yesterday private equity
stocks and private debt stocks [music]
>> hammered
>> hammered absolutely hammered led by uh
Blue Owl which saw their shares down
5.6% Blue Owl has heavily invested
[music] in the Meta deals and all sorts
of other infrastructure and data center
deals and has been having issues with
this one fund where they're not going to
necessarily [music] uh have quick
redemptions. real questions here about
whether we're just seeing the tip of the
iceberg or whether this is the blowoff
top that allows a [music] healthier kind
of move forward.
>> We're going to spend some time on this
throughout this morning, but this just
dropped the global fund manager survey
from Bank of America. Check [music] out
this title. Cash poor capex rich rate
cut needy. Are we going to get those
rate cuts based on the commentary we've
heard so far? Maybe not. [music]
>> This is the real issue to me and is this
part of what's driving the riskoff
sentiment right now? Now you've gotten
push back [music] although yesterday we
did get a little bit more doubbish speak
from vice chair Jefferson as well as
Chris Waller there [music] is a feeling
that there is a lot of push back on the
Federal Reserve in a sense that we could
get non-farm payrolls on Thursday for
[music] some reason uh that will edify
the sense that there is strength in the
economy and might push some of the Fed
officials not to cut. Does that send
markets [music] into a tail spin that
have been expecting those lower rates?
>> You're not excited for payrolls
Thursday?
>> You know
>> doesn't do it for you?
>> I got to say I am excited. I think it's
fabulous. very [music] excited to get
some data. It's backward-looking and
we've already heard people muddy the
waters by saying if it's a high number,
it's because it's payback [music] from
previous uh months and if it's a low
number, it really is just an adjustment
because of the birth death model and the
fact that we've gotten lower
immigration. So, I don't even know what
I'm looking at.
>> You don't like September. I [music]
can't wait to show you the noise in
October.
>> What October?
>> October is going to be a [music] very
messy messy jobs report. Payrolls, the
estimate in our survey, 55K. [music]
That's the median. And the estimates
keep pouring in ahead of Thursday.
Coming up this hour, Peter Chair of
Academy Securities with stocks adding to
a 3-day slide. Republic of Congressman
French Hill on the future of deposit
insurance and Sharon Miller of Bank of
America on the key findings from the
annual business owner report. We begin
this hour with stock sliding as investor
acts rises over valuations and interest
rates. Peter Chair of Academy writing,
"Expect the equity rotation to continue.
The NASDAQ 100 weaker from here. Not
doom and gloom, just a healthy dose of
profit taking and repositioning of risk.
Rotation, yes, pain ahead likely. Smooth
sailing unlikely. Pete joins us now for
more. Pete, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Hey, good to see you, too.
>> What do you make of those issues that
we've seen coming from the likes of
Alphabet, Meta, Amazon, Oracle? Why are
they coming to the debt market when some
of those companies have got so much
cash?
>> You know, I think they're going to use
some of that cash themselves. They are
doing some of the financing through
what's almost like a project finance
type structure and some of it's going to
come out of their own balance sheet. So
I think there's this realization that
the data center and AI buildout is going
to be extremely expensive and some of
it's going to come from private credit,
some of it's going to come from public
credit, some of it's going to come from
bank lending and it's not just the data
centers and AI, it's going to be the
energy buildout that's uh, you know,
required for that as well. So I think
that's starting to weigh on the market a
little bit. Not much, but there's some
pressure there.
>> What is this ecosystem built on? The
balance sheets of the Amazon and metas
and alphabets of this world or the shaky
flaky promises of opens and others? You
know, I think it's still built on
everyone says we need to be an AI. The
CEO say we need to be an II. We're
spending AI. And you're starting to hear
some positive stories where people
saying, you know, here's what we've got,
here's the benefits, but you're also
hearing a little bit rumbling underneath
like we're spending this, what are we
getting? So, I think that's going to be
the shakeout. Do we really see this
benefit? And to be honest, at this
stage, right, if it's really working for
everyone, I think that should flow to
higher multiples for the rest of the
market. So even if AI turns out to be
that, you know, as good as people hope,
as quick as people want it to be, I
think it should benefit the broad
market, not just the AI producers and
hyperscalers right now.
>> How much is this people trying to take
chips off the table before tomorrow's
Nvidia report? Because Nvidia shares
have lost half a trillion dollars since
October 29th on what what exactly has
driven that?
>> You know, what drove it up either? I
think we've got a lot of market
structures issues. You've got zero data
expiration options and then you've got,
you know, the ETFs. And I do think it's
been a change in the past year and a
half that you have Bitcoin ETFs, right?
People used to be able to hold their
cryptocurrency holdings separate. It was
in their own wallets or maybe it was at
Coinbase or something. They saw it
there. Now it's in your portfolio
potentially at your Schwab or Fidelity
and it moves with everything else. And I
think a lot of the people who are very
heavily invested in disruption, they own
that. They own ARK which is down you
know 20 some odd percent. They own the
hyperscaler. So they own the same set of
trades thinking they were different. And
every time we kind of get these hiccups,
correlation seems to go to one. So I
think that's putting the pressure. Is
this uh partly spurred to John's point
earlier about speculation that maybe the
Fed won't cut rates in December and
that's taking some of the froth out of
the system leading this to sort of a
very healthy kind of correction phase
that could have more legs but actually
will lead to a better ecosystem.
>> Right. I think people got a little bit
carried away with the Fed and how much
beneficial the Fed would be for this. So
as that kind of backs off, we're down to
warp. We're not even pricing in one full
cup by the end of January right now. So
that's kind of interesting to me. So
yeah, I think it's a healthy thought
about where do these things go and it
was a lot of money chasing and again
momentum has been such a strong
strategy. So people pile into momentum.
The problem is when momentum turns it
turns very quickly because no one
understood the valuations necessarily.
So you don't have any sort of depth of
value buying. So you're going to get
this volatility. I think it continues
for a little while. And again I think a
lot of people including myself you're
looking at Bitcoin. There's been nothing
but positive news out of this
administration out of the regulatory
environment. Everything seems positive
for crypto. C companies and countries
are talking about owning it and yet it's
down. I think that's kind of a bit eye
openening.
>> What's the relationship between
developments in crypto and what's
happening in the equity market? How does
one inform the other?
>> You know, I think people are looking at
anything that was kind of momentum and
again I think there was a class of
investors particularly the day trader
types who really bought into momentum
across all things. So whether it was
the, you know, hyperscalers, whether it
was Bitcoin, whether it's, you know,
these leverage plays, it's all one pile
of money. And as that kind of gets hurt,
they have to take some chips off the
table.
>> Do you think equities are leading crypto
or is crypto leading equities?
>> You know, I think crypto started this
turn down. I think now maybe it's a
little bit more balanced, but there were
a few days you're like, why is crypto
keep going down? Why is crypto going
down? And then all of a sudden it kind
of rolled over. And I go back to I
believe it was last Monday, right? We
had this ripping day in stocks, up 700
on the NASDAQ. Crypto didn't do quite as
well. And all of a sudden, everything
reversed starting on Tuesday. And since
then, it's been pretty much one way down
for crypto and stocks. So far, we've
been talking about this like it's a
gambling parlor. The idea of everyone's
trying to chase this chip and then kind
of get blown out of this position, etc.
Uh there has been this sort of
divergence between the underlying
economy and the market pretty
significantly throughout this year. I'm
wondering if this feels different based
on the action that we've seen in some
travel stocks and the sense uh from this
morning's Home Depot reports that there
really is this softness that's taking
hold. Do you think that the sell-off in
stocks could exacerbate that?
It could exacerbate that, but I think it
could also be just as you're saying
finally paying attention to some of
this, right? There has been this
weakness in the lower, you know, income,
you know, consumer, right? We've seen
parts of that. You're seeing a little
bit of pressure in the credit markets.
And one thing, we'll come back to this
in a second on the credit markets. Um,
but, you know, I do think the data that
we have, and we've been short on data
anyways, doesn't capture what goes on in
small businesses very well. I think
this, our data is designed to capture
big and medium businesses very quickly
and timely. It takes a while for small
businesses. everything we see in here
anecdotally and you know in some of the
numbers you can get is small business
has been hurt the most by the
uncertainty right they didn't have the
deep capital the working capital to get
ahead on tariffs they're uncertain about
this they run you know maybe not
monthtomonth but they do not have the
same sort of you know wherewithal to
suffer through months and months of
uncertainty so I think as the small
business data starts to hit the economy
that's where we're going to realize wow
this is where the jobs are and that
would probably fit very well with Home
Depot type of thing right that's the
small contractors right those are the
ones who are struggling right now who
would do your home fixes and things like
that. So I I think the economy is worse
than we realize. I think do think the
Fed should cut because I think that's
data is going to show up weaker and
weaker.
>> So if the Fed does not cut in December,
one thing that we've talked about is how
no corporate executive is talking about
the potential for a recession. We just
got forecast from Wall Street. All uh
the strategists seem incredibly bullish
on equities and talk about a
reaceleration. Are you saying that
that's wrong?
>> I think there is a chance of recession.
Right. First, it's never been off the
table, but we've been arguing even
before the government shutdown, they
were overstating the birth death model.
They assign way too many jobs to EIN or
employment identification number
applications. I think they missed the
boat there where people apply for EIN's
because they buy an Airbnb and they're
going to set up an LLC to run that or
they're going to, you know, do Uber Eats
or something. And, you know, I keep
looking at what's going on in the quits
rate really low. Um, law school
applications continue to go higher. All
those things to me are indicators that
everyone sees the economy is not that
strong. So I think we have that
possibility and everyone has to be very
careful right now because there is a
huge incentive to say things are good
because there's a lot of pressure coming
from the administration everyone. So you
don't want to be questioning it but I
think maybe now it's time to question it
so we can direct right policy. Some of
that worked really well. Trump just
backed off on tariffs and things that we
don't grow here. I think that's smart. I
don't think we should have ever put them
on but it's a good move.
>> Do you think there's a slow realization
in Washington DC in the White House that
the acceleration the pickup in the
economy is not developing? Yeah, I think
they are going back to maybe fine-tune
or retune what they did. I think they
went very big, very bold, whether that
was the right thing to do or not, but
now I think they're trying to figure out
where are the pockets that this isn't
working. I expect again we'll probably
see a bit more cooperation with places
like Canada, on things like podash, on
things like um the tar sands oils where
we need this, right? It we tried to do a
lot very quickly. That was the whole
plan. We know that he wants the economy
humming along by November. So I think
you're going to see some of these things
revisited where they make a true attempt
to fix things. Peter chair of Academy is
going to be sticking with us. The latest
numbers from Home Depot not speaking to
a pick up in the economy or any kind of
reaceleration. This quote from the CFO,
"We had expected demand to begin
accelerating gradually in the back half
of the year as interest and mortgage
rates eased, but and it's a big butt,
what we are seeing is ongoing consumer
uncertainty and continued pressure in
housing disproportionately impacting
home improvement demand."
>> And frankly, we've seen this in the
mortgage application numbers. We've seen
this in just the average home sales
turnover has fallen to a really low low
level. Transaction levels have fallen to
recessionary types of levels. And it's
interesting to me because it raises
questions for the inflation backdrop.
And City Group's Andrew Hollen Horse
yesterday said that new rents are rising
significantly below where they had 2 to
3%. So it sort of speaks to this idea
that maybe it's not so inflationary, but
are we overestimating some of the
strength that people are saying to that
can take us to some sort of soft
landing?
>> The Home Depot results are in the
Governor Wall Camp. That's for sure.
Home Depot this morning down by close to
2% in the pre-market with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara with more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. Just recapping those earnings.
Home Depot has cut its fullear [music]
guidance warning consumers aren't making
big ticket home purchases. The company
reported comparable thirdarter sales
that missed [music] estimates saying the
lack of storms also hampered demand in
roofing, generators, and other
categories. [music]
Meanwhile, initial jobless claims coming
in at 232,000 for the week ending
October 18th. The US Labor Department
posting the latest data to its website
overnight. Continuing claims came in at
1.957 [music] million, up slightly from
1.947 million in the prior week. The
delayed September [music]
payrolls report is due out on Thursday
at 8:30 a.m. Eastern.
And JP [music] Morgan vice chair Daniel
Pinto is warning a possible correction
may be due because of high AI
valuations. Pinto [music] becomes the
latest Wall Street executive to show
concern over a possible bubble forming
in artificial intelligence. The JP
Morgan vice chair made the comments at
the Bloomberg business summit in
Johannesburg earlier today. Bloomberg
terminal subscribers [music] can watch
the event and more with the function
live go. Dutch Bloomberg brief John
[music]
>> Yhara. Thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Yihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on a program, a Saudi arms
deal.
>> Are you planning uh to sell F-35s
to Saudi Arabia?
>> You've been a great ally. They've got to
like us very much. I will say that we
will be doing that. We'll be selling
F-35s. [music]
>> That conversation up next with Amarie
down in Washington DC live from New York
City this [music] morning. Good morning.
[music]
Three-day slide on the S&P [music] 500
could become day four. We're down across
the board. We're negative by a third of
1% on the S&P, down by a third of 1% on
the NASDAQ. The NASDAQ can in focus
tomorrow after the closing bell. We'll
have numbers from Nvidia. Numbers from
Target tomorrow as well. Walmart on
Thursday, this morning, moments ago,
Home Depot. Home Depot a miss. And they
cut the outlook too. And the [music]
commentary does not inspire confidence
into year end.
>> They were expecting the reaceleration as
so many people are and they did not see
it. The idea that the full year earnings
per share growth they now see as being
down 6% versus previously seeing it only
down 3% [music] highlights just how much
people are not coming back. And it
speaks to the pain that we keep seeing
[music] in the housing market. Yes,
Neil, I have been reading your emails.
>> Is that what Neil sent to you just
moments ago?
>> Well, he just has been talking
extensively about [music] the fact that
you cannot have a real recovery without
the housing market. That is one of the
key drivers of a lot of jobs and uh
economic activity. Think about how
expensive it is to buy a home, to
furnish it, all of those kinds of
things. Uh many of us have been there
and there is a feeling that without
that, it's hard to see that robust
broad-based growth and this really
[music] speaks to that.
>> You said Neil and my Bloomberg terminal
lit up. I've had to mute it. I'm not
sure if [laughter] it's near or not.
Going to check in a moment. Under
surveillance this morning, we'll head
down to Washington [music]
and look for a Saudi arms deal.
>> Are you planning uh to sell F-35s
to Saudi Arabia?
>> We've been a great ally. They've got to
like us very much. Look at the Iran
situation. What we did in terms of uh
obliterating, you know, their we
obliterated their nuclear capability.
Yeah, I I will say that we will be doing
that. will be selling F-35s.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
Saudi Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman
set to meet President Trump at the White
House later this morning with the two
leaders expected to continue deepening
ties. Amarice down in the nation's
capital for more. AMH selling F-35s. How
is that being taken down in Washington?
>> Well, Jonathan, when it comes to the
F-35s, this has been a longstanding
request of Saudi Arabia really for
years. I think some mixed results when
it comes to how it's being taken by a
lot of members in Congress, especially
given the fact that Israel might be a
little on edge by the fact that they
want to maintain that edge in military
capability in the region. But the
administration says they're going
forward with this in selling the most
advanced jet available for export to the
kingdom. It is a massive step and a big
win for the kingdom. But we should
remember this is going to take several
years when it comes to selling these
jets. One, Congress can hold up export
license on these jets. Two, there's mass
amounts of concern, security concerns,
and some restrictions that go along with
selling F-35s, which only go to really
the closest of US military allies. That
is what happened when the UAE several
years ago wanted to buy F-35s. In the
end, they got bogged down and said, "No,
thank you." And then third, of course,
potentially some pressure on Israel, but
really I think this would come down to
some difficulties in the details when it
comes to the security arrangement. So,
it's a big first step, but it's going to
be years in the making.
>> AMH down in Washington. More from Amarie
in just a moment. Peter CH of Academy
Security still with us around the table.
Pete, the Saudis get F-35s. What does
the US get in return?
>> I think the one, we get the money,
right? We get the trade deficit reduced
with them. And then I think this sets
the stage for us to be able to sell
NVIDIA chips to them. I think that
Saudi's goal is all along become the
data center capital of the world. They
believe they're well positioned to do
that and they've wanted our best chips.
So maybe this is an out part of the
outreach program. Hey, we'll spend
billions and billions and billions of
dollars on your fighter jets, but we'd
also really like to spend billions and
billions of dollars on your chips.
>> What's that relationship with China?
>> You know, I think they probably play
both sides a little bit, right? China is
very happy to sell their top quality
chips. Our top quality chips are much
better than China's top quality chips.
And I think the president has a very
transactional nature, right? I think
under Biden, we called them a pariah
state and we kind of, you know, lost
some ground there with what we're doing
with Saudis. So, I think Saudis will
play both to maximize what they want.
And I think the president's quite happy
to reduce our trade deficit with them.
It's been one of his key focuses. And if
we sell F-35, so be it. Maybe that gives
us the, you know, so we can build the
sixth generation fighters, right? And
maybe that's what his school is. Well,
that's fine. We'll sell you the so we
can build our own better fighters and
ultimately maybe sell those to Israel.
So I I think this is all a you know
matter of trade trade deficits and chips
somewhere behind the scenes are a
driving force.
>> It's interesting how much Saudi Arabia
has become a power broker
internationally when it comes to the
political sphere. When it comes to the
banking sphere it also has become the
new node of trade in many ways from the
west from the east it sort of is the
intermediary how much have you observed
that as this really does become the new
power broker both in finance as well as
in politics. You know, I would say less
I've noticed in finance. Though, having
said that, Dubai comes up in almost
every conversation. You got to get to
Dubai. The hedge funds are in Dubai.
Everything's setting up in Dubai. So,
you're seeing that region really grow
and expand well away from just being
this energy production or, you know,
energy source of, you know, oil and
natural gas, right? They really are as a
region trying to move beyond that. Data
centers is a very natural extension
given their ability to generate power,
how expensive it is to ship oil versus
uh shipping zeros and ones. So, I I
think they're taking a lot of the right
steps. that region is growing in that
respect.
>> How much is this fueled and no pun
intended, I apologize, uh by this idea
that Saudi Arabia and frankly the whole
Middle East has a key part to to driving
oil prices lower. And right now when
cost of living is that much more
important in the United States, lower
oil prices has allowed uh an offset to
some of the higher electricity prices in
terms of affecting cost of living. How
much is that part of this whole equation
to a bigger degree than we're really
understanding? My general assumption, my
working assumption, completely made up,
but I think it's a probably safe safe
working assumption is the Saudis and
Trump agreed if oil gets to 70, Saudis
will keep it below 70. I think they'll
support it at 50 because below 50 it
gets hard for American companies to make
money and to continue our production.
So, I think oil is going to be, you
know, it's a pretty wide range, 50 to
70, and Saudi is going to be a big part
of moving that and that's part of their
maybe quidd proquo with this
administration. We will do the things
that we can to help you with your
inflation and your energy issues. And
that's why I think 50 to 70 is about the
right range on oil and you do things
like to help us become the data center
which again fits us fits our agenda.
Jensen Wang was over there when we he
went to visit Saudi. He I don't know
that he's going to be at the White House
with these particular meetings but he's
been very influential. He has he's been
very good I think at working this
administration.
>> How does Venezuela fit in to all of
this?
So I, you know, I think one of the
things that we're trying to do, I think,
as a nation or this administration is
trying to reshape our rules of
engagement. So we have picked on
Venezuela because it is a source of
drugs. I think we've picked on Venezuela
because it's far enough away that no one
really cares that much what we do in
around Venezuela. And so I think we are
setting precedent on what sort of ships
we're able to attack, where we're able
to attack those ships. It looks like
we're taking steps towards Maduro. I
think a lot of this is going to be a
practice session for coming to Mexico at
some point in the next year and saying
to Shine Bomb, listen, we just dealt
with the Venezuelan drug problem. We are
happy to help you with your cartel
problem. We would really like to help
you with your cartel problem and if you
don't want our help and aren't going to
do anything about it, we might do it on
our own because we've now established
these new rules of engagement. So, I
think this is a precursor to what's
going to happen ultimately with the
cartels.
>> So, it's not an energy story. there
isn't an energy dimension to any of
this.
>> There is some element of energy
dimension but again the Venezuelan crude
it's going to take years to get back
into production. It's very very heavy uh
crude. China and India are also very
involved there. So I think there's an
element of that but I think this is
reestablishing
again this administration I think really
wants to focus on homeland security and
again more broadly defined which would
include the trafficking of drugs into
this. So I think they picked a
relatively easy and soft target. It is a
huge statement that we've got the
carrier there. The carrier does not need
to be some, you know, as with spider
marks the other day and you explained
it. It's a little bit like cooking an
egg with a blowtorrch. It's it's not
necessary, but it's sending a statement.
[laughter]
>> Pete, it's good to see you, sir.
>> Great to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you very
much. Peter chair of Academy on the
Energy Story. Crude is in the 50s just
about 59.94 on WTI. Brent Cruz so far
this morning 6419. Yeah, and it really
has been in that range and it's been a
huge pain trade and it's been a
frustration for some oil companies that
have announced a lot of job cuts because
they cannot necessarily reduce their
production. They don't want to lose
shares. So, they're making it more
efficient for them to operate. It just
does raise a question, right? Some of
these competing uh goals. Yes, national
security on one hand, but on the other
hand, cost of living issues in the US.
And if you could conveniently put those
together, well, you know, I pat your
back, you pat mine, everybody wins.
>> Win-win. Governor Waller made the point
in a speech last night. yesterday
evening, yesterday afternoon, [music]
making the point that there's no reason
to worry about inflation. Focus on the
labor market and I'm worried about
[music] a stall speed labor market cut
rates.
>> Yeah. And honestly, it sounds like um
McDonald's Happy Meals and Extra Value
Meals are are contributing to that whole
plan.
>> Futures this morning down by 0.3% on
[music] the S&P. A big affordability
push in Washington. Up next, Congressman
French Hill.
[music]
Three-day slide on the S&P 500 down
across the board again this morning.
We're looking [music] at day four. If we
get day four, the longest daily losing
streak going back to August. On the
NASDAQ, we're down a third. On the S&P,
we're down [music] a quarter. Not much
of an offset in the bond market. Yields
look like this. Twos, tens, and 30s.
Bond yields down by about three basis
points. 357 [music] at the front end of
the curve. On 10, down three to 41076.
Check out Japan. The NK225 [music]
down by more than 3% in Asian trading.
The biggest one day loss going back
[music] to April. Yields up at the long
gam 40-year bond yields highest on
record. 30 years not [music] too far
behind. We're up seven basis points on a
session over in Japan. Been a pretty
brutal 24 hours for Japanese markets.
>> Yeah. And it comes after Sait Kaiichi,
[music] the new prime minister, came out
and talked about the potential for
deploying Japanese troops to the Taiwan
Strait. And this invoked the eye of
Beijing. [music] a lot of blowback there
and a real question about how that could
affect uh some of its economy now in the
sort of about phase but it highlights
the geopolitics in the markets really
coinciding and the [music] fact that
ultimately where the Japanese market
goes so goes the rest of the world
particularly on the long end of the
yield curve
>> the Japanese finance minister's in
[music] a tough spot finance minister
Katyama's come out and said essentially
she's worried about the currency but
also the economic package they [music]
might deliver perhaps is going to be
bigger than people expected so you've
got to weigh one up against the other
[music]
>> and this really ultimately uh delivers
the issue for Sai Takayichi and the
concern when she came into power. This
idea that she would [music] be uh much
more stimulative in some of her offers
at the same time that you don't
necessarily have a Bank of Japan that's
as willing to hike rates as aggressively
[music] as some people have hoped. This
is the doom loop, right? You want to
cater to some of the sentiment in the
[music] population. This is what people
want. And at the same time, given the
debt load that a lot of national uh and
other nations have, [music] there is a
limited scope to do so without roing the
currency markets as well as the bond
markets.
>> And just the sprinkle of a diplomatic
splat between Japan and China
>> makes it very difficult.
>> Not exactly helping to mood music around
Japanese assets over the last few days.
Equity futures then negative by a third.
Let's lift the lid on the US side of
things and get you some movers, some
morning movers with Yahira. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. Home Depot is kicking off
retail earnings with a warning. Those
shares are down 2 and a4%. The home
improvement chain is cutting its fullear
guidance, [music] saying that consumers
just aren't spending enough on those big
ticket home improvement projects.
Instead, they're spending on smaller
projects. So, [music] that hit sales and
profit in the last quarter. And that is
not boating well for its competitor,
Lowe's. Those shares are also down
nearly 1.6% [music]
falling in sympathy. We will get Lowe's
earnings later [music] this morning.
Meanwhile, moving on to big tech. We are
seeing Amazon and Microsoft shares also
in the red after they got a rare
downgrade over by analysts at Rothschild
Rothschild and co- redburn. They
downgraded both to neutral saying that
the underlying [music] economics around
generative AI are far weaker than
assumed. This of course comes amid
broader [music] concerns around an AI
bubble. And the analyst notes that he
now sees a higher risk [music] that
Microsoft and Amazon are overbuilding on
the AI front. And moving on to another
AI skeptic, Michael Bur out with a new
post on X and it has to do with Molina
healthcare [music] shares. Those are
rising 3.8%. The famous investor says
that he is long the stock while also
being long. Palanteer puts, a combo he
says goes together like peanut butter
and bananas. John,
>> here we [music] go. I'll trust him on
the peanut butter and bananas. You like
that mix?
>> You know, I was just going to say,
normally you'd think peanut butter and
jelly.
>> Yeah.
>> Peanut butter and [music] jam, but
peanut butter and jelly. I've seen
people do that for breakfast.
>> Peanut butter and bananas.
>> I've seen that around the office. Yeah,
>> it's the [music] same thing. You just
mash it up and then it's jam.
>> I know a couple of people in the control
room at Devils.
>> Are you Are you shaming? Are you peanut
butter and banana shaming them?
>> No. [laughter] I know our director John
does something similar.
>> Just peanut butter on top. No bananas.
Okay. Honestly, I'm I'm game for it.
>> Let's get you some news. On a radar this
morning, the Saudi Crown Prince Muhammad
bin Salman set to meet President Trump
at the White House later on today in his
first US visit since 2018. The lead is
expected to discuss deepening ties on
defense, trade, energy, and technology.
Elsewhere, economic data from the period
during the six week government shutdown
slowly pouring in. Initial claims from
the week ending October 18th totaling
232K. The figure was posted overnight to
an online government database. And
finally, Home Depot shares falling after
the company cut its fullear guidance.
CFO warning consumers are hitting the
pause button on big ticket purchases
saying expectations for an endofear
demand boost have failed to materialize
their stock is down by 2.3%.
>> Yeah. And citing the continued pressure
in housing disproportionately affecting
their demand and their clientele and it
raises this issue. How much is this a
Home Depot story and a housing story and
how much is this a broader story that
will be reflected in Walmart later this
week as well as some of the other
retailers that we are going to be
hearing from? blows shares are falling
in sympathy. There's a feeling right now
going forward that the housing market
has been in a world of pain and it's
been isolated. It's been an
idiosyncratic story. Is that starting to
change with some of the investments and
the sentiment that come around it?
>> And is some of the stress starting to go
and migrate beyond low-income groups in
this country? That would be a big
change. Low-inccome groups have been
struggling for a long time coming out of
the pandemic. There was a moment where
things were hot in the labor market. It
was only a moment. Is it going beyond
just that group now?
>> Yeah. And how much is this not just
necessarily a pessimism or an inability
to pay, but as Restoration Hardware CEO
talked about a couple of weeks ago,
>> dropping fbombs,
>> dropping fbombs about the ability to
pass along price increases and saying if
you think that you can pass along these
price increases on furniture, you are
whatever blank blank blank blank blank
because ultimately that is what you're
seeing. You're seeing margin compression
also across the board which highlights
the push back to some of these pricing.
You might say disinflation, oh my god,
cut rates. But then it raises another
bunch of questions which is why have
other data points been so strong
especially given the fact that we just
haven't seen a materially a material
breakdown in sentiment of corporate
executives or frankly consumers uh
either in terms of their actual
spending.
>> I'm going to say the eye word so forgive
me you know sort of breaking my own
rules. There is one idiosyncratic piece
of the Home Depot story and Yahara
mentioned it. Storm season wasn't
tremendous for them. It wasn't bad for
everybody else and ultimately it led to
people not rebuilding their homes in
quite the same way. That's the one
idiosyncratic piece of the story coming
from Home Depot for the third quarter.
>> Let's see. Let's see the other earnings.
We've heard similar things. I I do think
it is interesting and I do wonder if
this is really just about the fact that
our homes weren't weren't blown down.
So, we were not forced to rebuild, but
there is a feeling that there is a
broader sense and that's why you saw
travel stocks in particular take a real
hit over the past couple of days. That's
the reason why some of the rhetoric
coming out of some of the retailers, I'm
thinking of Deckers. If you don't have
the premium product has been crap all
year.
>> Okay, but part of this is if you don't
have a competitive advantage in running
say if you aren't hoka or you're not on
holdings, then what can you do to pass
along price increases that are pervading
your your your items and right now the
answer is not much and that is I think
you're seeing more and more.
>> Home Depot down by about 2.5% so far
this morning. Let's turn to Capitol
Hill. Affordability top of mind in
Washington. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson telling media that President
Trump's plans for $2,000 tariff dividend
checks will require an act of Congress.
Amber is down in Washington DC and
stands by with a special guest. Morning
Amory.
>> Good morning, John. That's right. A man
that potentially running hearings about
this or we'll definitely get a vote on
it. The chairman of Financial Services
Committee, Congressman French Hill of
Arkansas. Good morning, Congressman.
Thank you so much for joining me.
>> Great to be with you. Thanks for having
So, as Jonathan was saying, the Treasury
Secretary over the weekend was talking
about how Congress would have to act for
these $2,000 tariff dividend checks the
president has floated. Do you think
that's something Congress would get on
board with?
>> I think Congress would certainly
consider it. I mean, my judgment has
been that I think uh the tariff revenue
that's sustainable, that people believe
is sustainable in the years ahead ought
to be used to reduce the deficit. I
think that would be a much better macro
use of it. We are concerned about
affordability in Congress. In fact, in
our here in our in our committee, we're
going to have a hearing on housing
affordability. How does federal policy
how could that encourage housing
construction development and also
improve affordability when we know the
biggest barrier to housing affordability
has been first unprecedented inflation
uh commenced by the Biden administration
and the Fed's mistakes in and during and
after the pandemic. But what can we do
at the margin in federal policy to
increase housing construction
affordability? Well, I remember when the
second round of checks went out to the
Americans during co the Republicans
really made it part of their criticism
of the Biden administration was that
they were gooseing inflation. Could
$2,000 checks do the same next year
under a Trump administration? Look, I
think uh inflation's caused by too many
dollars chasing chasing too few goods.
And I think the origin of this inflation
of 40-year high inflation that we had
had after the pandemic was due to fiscal
mistakes by the Biden administration
approving and spending another $6
trillion in federal spending that we
borrowed. And secondly, by keeping rates
too low and the balance sheet too big
coming out of the pandemic, we're now
healing from that. Inflation is down.
Oil prices are down. I think the
consumers are are going to feel better
off in their pocketbook from that. But
we have to be wary that one of the
biggest concerns that families have is
the affordability of housing. And that's
where I think we should tackle that at
the federal level by removing barriers
to more affordable housing and access to
credit for housing.
>> Jonathan, Lisa, were just talking about
Home Depot earnings. They said that
ongoing consumer sentiment has been a
little bit weak. There's uncertainty
there. Of course, Walmart's going to be
reporting towards the end of the week.
That's your constituent. Have you been
hearing from Walmart and other either
small businesses or big retailers about
tariffs and how it has been difficult to
pass on some of these costs?
>> Well, I haven't heard so much about um
I've heard both about passing on costs
for some small manufacturers. You know,
American small manufacturers. Our
country is filled with that. And about
50% of manufacturing inputs for small
business come from abroad and 50% are
sourced domestically. And there are some
American manufacturers and small
businesses that don't have another
supply source. So they are hit in the
short run by acrosstheboard tariffs.
Which is why generally I've not
supported across the board tariffs. I
think you ought to target countries for
bad behavior, mercantialistic behavior,
non-tariff barriers, uh negative tariffs
towards the US market or uh target
particular industries you think should
come back in the supply chains uh
whether it's steel, aluminum, uh and
then target that over a long period of
time. So yes, I've heard from my uh
constituents about this and this is why
I think the biggest challenge is not so
much the tariff rate as it is in the
uncertainty about planning around
tariffs and I hope the administration
can come uh to the decision that they've
made tremendous trade successes with
many of our partners around the world.
Let's uh embrace those changes and get
those implemented and that will give
certainty to people planning for 2026.
You're having your first hearing today
since the government has been reopened
and it's about deposit insurance. When I
think of deposit insurance, I'm always
reminded of the sign at the bank that
says you are FDIC secured up to
$250,000.
What kind of changes could we see to
that minimum?
>> Well, over the last couple of years,
Congress has had some hearings on
deposit insurance about uh a couple of
things. one, should the $250,000 level
be raised, but due to inflation, it was
last increased as a result of the 2008
uh crisis. Secondly, should we
reauthorize the TAG program, which is an
emergency program to guarantee
transaction deposits in the face of a
systemic problem uh with the US banking
system that has been uh expired over the
years and so I think Congress should
reconsider that and look at it. And then
should we have a deposit insurance study
at large about how deposit insurance is
working for the American people? This is
important. It's a priority for the
committee and it's a priority for the
Senate Banking Committee. So, we look
forward to the discussion today.
>> How long would something like that take
to actually do
>> and what specifically
>> raising the 250,000?
>> Well, I think it could be raised
according with inflation, but I think
this is where I think a study and being
data dependent is important. So many
people make emotional decisions about
finance. I think we ought to study, make
sure we have the numbers, make sure we
know the unintended consequences of any
aspect of change of the deposit
insurance system. You don't want to
increase moral hazard. You want to
maintain bank competitiveness for banks
of all sizes and that's important and
that's why I think we should take it in
a deliberate way.
>> We talked about the kitchen table issues
facing American families, what's going
on in the banking sector. The headlines
today though in Congress are going to be
about this Jeffrey Epstein discharge
position. How are you expecting to vote
and how do you think other Republicans
will vote today?
>> I think people want transparency and
that's why Mike Johnson's done a good
job contrary to a lot of the mainstream
media. Mike Johnson asks as asked Jamie
Comr, our oversight committee chair to
study this intensely, investigate it
with subpoena authority, and he's
released everything that's a DOJ or FBI
related document and the Epstein estate
that can be legally released, meaning
that's not covered by a court order not
to release grand jury investigative
material. the uh Massie proposal on the
House floor that I think most
Republicans and Democrats will support
at the end of the day calls for
releasing everything irrespective of
those court orders. So, I think you'll
see litigation if this were to be passed
by the Senate and it became a law. I
think you'd see litigation about
protecting the confidentiality and grand
jury investigations, which is why I
believe that the COMR approach and
Speaker Johnson's approach was more
deliberative and appropriate. But all I
think Republicans and Democrats want
transparency around the Estate matter.
>> Congressman, thank you so much for your
time. Great to be with you. Great to see
you in Washington. Great to see Congress
back at work. Jonathan, Congressman
French Hill, of course, also chairman of
financial services when it comes to
$2,000 check. Sounds like everything is
on the table, but his main concern is
using those tariff dollars to bring down
the deficit.
>> Amarie, appreciate the update down in
Washington. Always good to hear from
Congressman Hill, a very prominent
Republican on Capitol Hill.
diplomatically, carefully, just exposing
some of the flaws in the tariff strategy
of the last seven months,
>> saying he would have supported a
narrower, more targeted package of
tariffs, not the sort of broad-based
approach. Is this push back going to
continue? We've seen it with coffee.
We've seen it with bananas. We've seen
the president become more aware of this.
Does the Supreme Court case and
potential any overturn give political
cover to backtrack on some of this?
>> What's the date for finding out the
result of that? Turn of the year, year
end.
>> Yeah, I mean, honestly, it's sort of a
moving target. there isn't sort of a
schedule of releases that is that's sort
of announced but the expectation is the
turn of the year probably the beginning
of January
>> what to look for going into year end to
look for this morning look out for the
market look out below we're down by
about a quarter of 1% call it a third on
the S&P 500 with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief
here's Yahara Arnard Yahara
>> hi John Rio Tinto is adding new [music]
sir charges on alum aluminum headed to
the US as tariffs tighten supplies and
inventories drop the US relies heavily
[music] on foreign aluminum as it
doesn't have the capacity to produce
enough to meet [music] demand. The fees
stack on top of the already high Midwest
premium, pushing costs to more than 70%
above the raw metal price. Meanwhile,
Larry Summers said he plans to step back
from his public commitments after his
[music] correspondence with the late
disgraced sex offender Jeffrey Epstein
was made public by US lawmakers.
Summers, a Harvard professor and paid
contributor to Bloomberg TV said he
[music] will continue to fulfill his
teaching obligations.
And another high-profile departure at
Apple sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Abdor [music] Chowuri, an
industrial designer who helped develop
the iPhone Air has left the company for
an AI startup. [music] Chowuri spent
more than six years at Apple, joining
around the same time famous design chief
Joanie Ibe left the company. Dr.
Bloomberg, John [music]
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next on the program,
listening to Main Street.
>> This dow view expressed by consumers
which may have been affected by the
shutdown lines up with what I'm hearing
from US businesses.
>> That conversation up next with Sharon
Miller of Bank of America live from New
York City. [music] You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[music]
New fund manager survey [music] from
Bank of America. Number one most crowded
trade, Long Mag 7. Not a surprise.
Number one tail risk AI bubble. Again,
not a surprise. But for the first time
in 20 years, investors [music] say
companies are overinvesting. After
complaining they weren't investing
enough for 10 years, now they're
overinvesting.
>> Yeah. And you can see this fear.
Although you could argue maybe these
investors are also overinvesting because
their cash [music] holdings fell to a
low that is often seen as an incredible
uh sell signal. 3.7% of their
allocations currently in cash. So maybe
the overinvesting is [music] percolating
beyond uh just corporate America.
>> Equities pulling back. We're down a
third on the S&P down 4/10en on the
NASDAQ 100 so far [music] this morning.
And the surveillance this morning
listening to Main Street.
This dower view expressed by consumers
which may have been affected by the
shutdown lines up with what I'm hearing
from US businesses. Slowing labor demand
is also being echoed in surveys of
employers and workers. Many businesses
may be cutting jobs or allowing levels
to fall by attrition in connection with
actual or anticipated [music]
productivity gains from AI.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street bracing for a wave of economic
data leading up to Thursday's payrolls
report with questions mounting on the
health of the labor market. Bank of
America publishing its annual business
owner report with an optimistic view
finding over half of business owners
expect to maintain staff levels over the
next 12 months with only 1% yes 1% of
business owners planning to lay off
employees. Sharon joins us now for more.
Sharon, an optimistic take. What else
did you find? Talk to me about revenue
expectations, plans to expand. Does it
look good going into 26?
>> Well, it's great to be here with you all
today and yes, the the view is really
cautious optimism as we look ahead at
the next 12 months. So, 74% do expect
their revenues to increase over the next
12 months and over half believe the
national, local, and global economy will
improve and 60% plan to hire. So as you
think about what's happening in small
and midsize businesses, I would I would
say that it's very
cautiously optimistic outlook would be
how I would c characterize this. Sharon,
one aspect of this is their ability to
pass along prices because a lot of them
were affected and have been affected by
inflation. You saw that in a significant
way. 88% say they are currently being
impacted by inflation which is
consistent with last year. How easy has
it been for them to pass along those
price increases?
>> Well, you're right. Uh inflation has
been an issue. Nearly 88% said they have
been impacted by inflation. And then the
other item is supply chain and making
sure that they have the right sourcing
for their materials. So, you know, they
are passing along some of those price
increases and some are, you know, taking
it. It just depends on what type of
industry you're in and how flexible the
ability is to pass on those to
consumers. So, we hear both. Um, but I
will tell you that inflation is starting
to cool and the supply chains are
starting to stabilize as we move forward
into 2026.
>> Sharon, there's a good degree of
nervousness this morning in some of the
consumerf facing stocks and some of the
retailers. Home Depot came out. a real
concern there about how much it's a
housing specific story and how much it's
a broader consumer pullback. I'm just
wondering, can you pull together what
you're hearing from businesses with
their hiring plans with their sense of
the economy? Does it jive with the sense
that things might be slowing a lot more
than the overall data might suggest?
Well, in our data and we do uh not only
survey clients, but we use our data that
we have available through the bank. We
are the number one uh lender to small
businesses in the US and that's you know
been for the last 17 consecutive
quarters. So as you think about what's
happening with our client base we are
seeing profits still rising and as you
look at what's happened over the past 5
years most businesses their revenues
have increased their profitability have
increased at least um what we are seeing
in our numbers and in the conversations
we're having across the desk from
clients. So you know as you think about
different industries, different sectors,
um you will see different uh outcomes
but at the end of the day we are seeing
still strength in the consumer spending
and that is fueling business on Main
Street.
>> Sharon, have you seen any softening in
the relationship between expectations
for revenue and expectations for hiring?
I think this is really important. I'm
encouraged by the numbers I see in your
survey, but is that number lower than it
traditionally is? that 43% that expect
to carry on hiring. Would it typically
be higher alongside that higher more
robust expectation for revenue?
>> You know, I think we we've seen a you
know, it it es and flows through the
years, but I would say, you know, 41%
expecting to hire over the next 12
months. That is a a strong number as you
think about what you might hear in the
NFIB surveys or um with with even
planned layoffs. We are not seeing that
within the small and midsize space. We
are seeing as you noted in the beginning
of this segment only 1% do plan to lay
off any workers. So we are seeing more
efficiencies gained through AI. Uh
there's a lot of investment happening in
AI and that's being used more for
marketing and driving new customers. So
the the spirit of the American business
owner both small and midsize as we go
into 2026, you know, there is there is a
a recognition that it will continue to
grow and really because they are
smaller, we do have the opportunity to
be more nimble and pivot based on what's
happening with the economy and their
local markets.
>> Well, thank you for sharing some of that
data with us this morning. We appreciate
it. Sharon Miller there, the president
and co-head of business banking at Bank
of America. I'm encouraged by that
because that would be my number one
question into next year. Great. You're
making loads of money. You're looking to
expand. Fantastic. What are your hiring
intentions for 26 because things haven't
been looking great in 25?
>> I thought your question was a great one
because ultimately it goes to the
question of are we seeing people hire
but less than they otherwise would based
on their revenue increase. Is there any
evidence that people are doing more with
less? And when I say less, I don't mean
less money because that investment is
happening. I mean fewer people. And that
I think is [music] a good question to
keep asking. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Liz Anne Sanders of
Charles Swap, the University of Virginia
Professor Jennifer Lawless, ECB
Supervisory [music] Board Chair Claudia
Buck and Kay Her of JP Morgan. Asset
management. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
[music]
There's a lot of anxiety about the
consumer right now.
>> You are seeing this bifocation in the US
consumer.
>> We haven't seen the majority of price
increases I think that we might see
happen.
>> Inflation is likely to be [music] more
volatile.
>> The economy has been remarkably
resilient for the last 8 months.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Bramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surve starts right now and
your scores look like this. 3-day slide.
It looks like day four. We're down a
third of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by 0.3. On the Russell, we're
down by a third of 1%. Also in focus,
Home Depot in a pre-market negative by
2.8% [music] out with numbers an hour
ago. A miss, a cut to the outlook, and
[music] a not so wrinkling an
endorsement of a pick up in economic
activity into year end. They had
expected that acceleration into year
end, particularly with big ticket items.
They did not see it and it seemed like
that was [music] going to continue based
on their expectation for fullear
earnings per share growth coming in at a
negative [music] 6% versus the
expectation of negative 3%. There is a
question with the sell-off that we've
seen over the past few days, is this
something different? [music] It's not
just momentum driven downdraft. It's not
just a question a blowoff top of some of
the uh the high-tech valuations. There's
a question about the consumer [music]
and whether it's ready to fall out of
bed, especially if the Fed doesn't
deliver a rate cut next month.
>> The consumer is telling you things
aren't great. The companies that pick up
on consumer activity are telling you the
things into year end aren't great.
Sharon Miller of Bank of America on the
program just moments ago talking about a
better 2026. So if you're a policy maker
right now, you're [music] truck stuck
between the reality of a 25 that's soft,
the promise of a better 26. What do you
do? Risk management. Governor Chris Wall
is making the point that you still cut
interest [music] rates at the December
meeting. Do not take any of this for
granted. Don't believe things are just
going to pick up when things are still
so soft.
>> You know, Fed Vice Chair Jefferson came
out yesterday in a speech and said
something similar talking about how they
have seen risks to the labor market grow
and they do point to a number of the
data points that other people have in
particular [music] some of the quits
rates the idea that people don't feel
free enough to quit their jobs. You are
seeing lackluster hiring across the
board even with earnings which is the
reason why I think it's important to
keep pointing out yes a lot of these
companies are feeling pretty good but
are they hiring commensurate [music]
with the optimism that they feel uh for
the economy you made that point just
earlier and there's a question here
about whether the parts of the economy
that are most interest sensitive are in
recession [music] and that's I think the
question that Home Depot is really
pointing to how much housing represents
a broader swath of the rate sensitive
economy
>> the weight of this market on the shelf
holders of Nvidia going into the close
tomorrow when we get earnings after the
closing bell. That earnings report is
massive for this week [music] given how
shaky sentiment seems to be around the
story. Now,
>> there is a feeling that what was once a
cashbased investment is increasingly a
leveraged one. Nvidia shares have lost
[music] half a trillion dollars since
October 29th. That's just a couple of
weeks that they've seen [music] a
massive decline, 10% draw down. And it
raises this issue of what is the
ultimate goal? Are these companies at
some point going to stop spending so
much and start reaping the profitability
of all of this data center buildout? Or
are people trying to build to the moon
and [music] compete with one another and
it's the arms race to where uh that ends
up creating a lot of leverage and a very
different structure for big tech.
[music] These are some of the
existential worries baked into markets
right now. How much further they have to
go is really the question that a lot of
people keep asking.
>> Equities this morning pulling back by
just 0.4% on the S&P adding to recent
losses. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Lisan Saunders of Charles Swap
as the tech selloff extends. Jennifer
Lawless of the University of Virginia as
President Trump brings his affordability
pitch to McDonald's and Khur of JP
Morgan as Amazon raises billions in its
first US bond sale in about 3 years. We
begin this out with stocks edging lower.
Lisanne Sers of Charles Swab writing the
following. The AI trade has been
struggling recently, but there is some
interesting churn under the surface.
Lisanne joins us now for more. Lisanne,
welcome back. four-day move, potentially
a four-day slide on the S&P 500. Talk to
us about that churn beneath the surface.
Is there something something concerning?
Maybe something encouraging into year
end.
>> Um maybe a little bit of both. Uh John,
and this churn story is not a new story.
If you go back to the April 8th closing
low and just look at index level
performance, in the case of the S&P at
the index level, the maximum draw down
is only about 5%. And that was actually
back in April when we had a little bit
of that retest after the pretty ugly
first week in April. Since then, the
market's obviously been up uh
significantly. However, the average
member within the S&P 500, just since
the April 8 closing low has had a 17%
average draw down and in the NASDAQ over
that same period of time, the average
member has had a 39% draw down. So,
there's already been a lot of turnout to
the surface. [laughter] has just been
masked when you've had these
meggaapdriven
components of the rally. You don't see
the churn under the surface. That could
continue. That said, that also provides
opportunity and maybe one of the reasons
why as you see a bit of a pullback and
some of the prior high flyers, there's
money finding its way into areas that
had been less loved. You know,
healthcare and energy is two examples of
that.
>> Miss, where does the consumer fit in? We
were just talking about the Home Depot
numbers, not great. Target tomorrow,
Walmart Thursday. Where does the
consumer fit into that broader trade?
>> I think the the consumer is under a bit
of pressure. Uh you know, wage growth in
nominal terms has been uh coming down
certainly at the low end. You know, a
couple of years ago, the interesting
story was that on the lower income end
of the spectrum, the lower wage end of
the spectrum, the wage increases were
actually greater relative to the upper
end. That phenomenon has reversed. And
the fact that you've got within
inflation, there's so much focus on
goods inflation versus services
inflation or tariff impacted goods
versus non-tariff impacted goods. But
the discretionary non-discretionary
divide within inflation I think is the
real tell in terms of why you're seeing
this pressure on the consumer because
you've got the discretionary components
now down with a one handle on it in
terms of those categories within CPI.
Those would be the wants categories.
Yet, it's the non-discretionary
categories, the needs categories where
you still have, you know, sort of a
4ish% inflation rate. So, given that the
low-end consumer spends
disproportionately on those
non-discretionary goods, that's why I
think the pain is so much higher and why
you're seeing it manifested in so many
uh companies that don't just cater to
that lower end, but that's where they're
seeing the weakness.
>> Yeah. CarMax yesterday down just almost
7% just in one day and you're seeing a
lot of the the travel stocks in
particular Herz Avis and Expedia all
also taking a real hit and it goes to
this question Lzanne at what point are
there pockets of the economy pockets of
credit that are exposed to this
particular consumer weakness that are
just getting sused out now.
>> Yeah. So the whole cockroach theory,
everybody loves to to to cite Jamie
Diamond for that. And I think there's
validity to that. I think maybe the a
differential relative to periods in the
past, and I'll use another bug analogy.
You know, cockroaches and termites are
different things. And uh it's not
surprising that you're starting to see
more fissures here, but I'm not sure
it's something that suggests the overall
foundation of the financial system is
threatened here. Um I'm not going to say
the I word. I'm like John. I don't like
that uh word. I think it gets overused.
I also don't like the I also don't like
the word uncertainty. Um, I I think
unstable is probably the uh the the the
better descriptor here, but I think it
it continues to mean we get a lot of
churn and that some of that money that
had been pure momentum chasing without
regard for for what was going on from a
macro perspective or into areas like uh
fissures in the credit markets. I think
there's maybe a little bit more
discernment happening here right now and
an an attempt to bring some sort of
quality and value back into portfolios.
>> How much more of a decline or draw down
particularly in the high-flying stocks
this year, Alzanne, would you have to
see before you got more constructive and
you felt like it was truly a buying
opportunity rather than something that
might be endemic of some other issues?
>> Uh, probably a bit more to go. You've
got the the valuation excess concern.
Although I'm always one to point out
that valuation is a terrible market
timing tool. It it it doesn't if you
have say a one-year time horizon,
valuations at any point are not a good
descriptor of what's going to happen in
the next year. I think the rub right now
is that if you look at let's let's pick
on the MAG7 cohort as a proxy for the
the high-f flyers. um earnings growth
rates have been descending for that
cohort from more than 50% a year and a
half ago or so down into the high teens.
At the same time, the other 493
are actually seeing accelerating pace of
growth. Now, in level terms, the growth
rate for the mag 7 is still higher than
the growth rate growth rate for the
other 493. But as I'm fond of saying and
for a long time is better or worse often
matters more than good or bad. So there
is an expectation that we'll start to
see a leveling out in that deceleration
in MAG 7 earnings growth rates before
you maybe start to slightly accelerate.
But I think it's that differential um
and the direction of travel up for the
other 493 down for the MAG 7. So it's
not just a valuation issue. It's a
concern about the direction of travel
for the underlying denominator of the
equation.
>> Lzan, you've seen it all. We're down 3%
from all-time highs. Lzan, I just wonder
how spoiled we've been. A 3% move on the
S&P 500 and some of the commentary
around this market. It just sounds
dreadful. Is this the most painful 3%
move you've ever seen?
>> You know what's really amazing about
this backdrop is how quickly attitudinal
measures of sentiment swing. I've been a
sentiment follower for my nearly 40
years doing this. And there in the past
has been a little bit more commonality
between the behavioral measures of
sentiment and the attitudinal measures
of sentiment. Now we see something
completely different where you see the
behavioral measures of sentiment bud
flows put call ratio. You don't see that
swiftly moving to uh to sort of react to
a little bit of concern to your point
only a 3% drop in the market. some of
those attitudinal measures of sentiment
swing wildly toward uh pessimism. It
just does tend to get corroborated uh by
the behavioral measures of sentiment. I
think that unique backdrop uh is likely
to persist.
>> Well framed Lisanne, thank you as
always. Good to see you. Lisan Sers
there of Charles Schwab. It's like three
is the new 10. Sentiment just gets
absolutely whipsed on a 3% move at the
index level. Maybe we're all just
hyperfocused on the idea that social
media is trying to make our emotions
rise and fall at a much higher uh higher
intervals uh intervals and troughs.
Maybe that's the issue.
>> It's a more emotional market,
>> an emot emotional society.
>> Futures down by 0.5% on the S&P 500.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnand with more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Federal Reserve Governor
Christopher Waller standing by his view
that the central bank should lower
interest rates when policymakers meet
next month. Waller citing a weak labor
market and saying monetary policy that
is hurting low and middle inome
consumers. Waller says another [music]
rate cut would represent good risk
management.
Meanwhile, Roblox is rolling out a new
age verification tool. Starting today,
the gaming platform will ask users to
verify their ages with photos or videos
[music] to increase safety. Roblox
saying the update should ultimately
boost long-term value for shareholders
as it faces [music] lawsuits over its
child safety practices. Tune in to BTE
at 11:00 a.m. Eastern for an interview
with the Roblox CEO.
And the US is expediting visas for
foreign visitors with [music] tickets to
the World Cup. President Donald Trump
said government agencies are working to
ensure that soccer fans from around the
world are properly vetted and able to
come to the US [music] next summer
easily. World's Cup matches will take
place next year in 11 US cities from
July 11th to [music] July 19th. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next, President Trump's affordability
pitch.
>> The word is affordable and affordable is
should be our word, not theirs. Now we
have normal inflation. We're going to
get it a little bit lower. Frankly, we
want perfection. You know, you always
want 1%.
>> That conversation up next with Jennifer
Lawless of the University of Virginia
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> 3% move on the S&P 500. Feels like the
world is ending. 3-day slide on the S&P
could become day four. We're down by
half of 1% on the S&P 500.
>> Hold on a second. Okay. Yes, it's 3% on
that headline, but Lizanne Saunders
framed it really well. You've actually
seen a broadening out. Nvidia has lost
half a trillion dollars in just a couple
trading sessions. This is up a little
bit. Not saying
I'm feeling the emotion. We're an
emotional society now.
>> It's been a relentless move up and to
the right for 7 months.
>> I know it's hard to deal with% move at
the index level and it feels brutal. It
feels bad. It feels painful because
we've seen moves like that in widely
held [music] names like Nvidia
>> and there is this existential concern
that this is the beginning, the tip of a
spear and that there is a lot more to
go. Although we have seen emotions that
fly a lot higher than sometimes [music]
the uh representative moves in the
equity markets.
>> Consumer numbers haven't been great.
Haven't had much data. So, we're leaning
on the [music] retail earnings, the Home
Depots of this world. Home Depot not
fantastic. Later on this week, you'll
hear from Target and you will hear from
Walmart and we'll get some jobs data,
too. So, by the end of the week, we
should have a decent snapshot. I'm not
going to overemphasize the word decent,
but fairly decent snapshot of where this
consumer is going into year end.
>> Is this just about home renovations and
people maybe [music] prolonging some of
the decisions to renovate their kitchens
or bathrooms? yours is something that
goes to [music] a deeper fear of the
future of inflation of job stability for
a lot of different consumers. Do we get
that sense from Walmart and Targeters?
It's going to be a tale of two halves
where Target continues to struggle and
Walmart continues to get [music] market
share because ultimately I don't want to
use the Iword either, but there are a
lot of corporate stories here that are
uh also riding in tandem with the
consumer cycle.
>> Affordability very much in focus in
Washington under surveillance this
morning. President Trump's affordability
pitch. We are doing better than we've
ever done as a country. Prices are
coming down. The word is affordable and
affordable is should be our word, not
theirs because the Democrats got up and
affordability. Affordab and they don't
say that they had the worst inflation in
history. The highest energy prices in
history. Now we have normal inflation.
We're going to get it a little bit
lower. Frankly, we have it down to a low
level, but we're going to get it a
little bit lower. We want perfection.
You know, you always want 1%.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump touting his
administration's economic policies as he
takes steps to ease price pressures. The
president also praising McDonald's for
lowering costs. Amarie joins us now from
Washington with a special guest. Hey
Marie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. That's right.
We're now joined by Jennifer Lawless
from the University of Virginia to
discuss this. Jennifer, thank you so
much for joining us. I just want to
start with who is winning the airwaves
when it comes to tackling the
affordability crisis in America?
If we look at the election results from
a couple of weeks ago, the Democrats are
definitely winning in terms of messaging
largely because affordability strikes at
the heart of what Americans are
grappling with right now. And their
successes in Virginia, New Jersey,
across the board, New York City,
suggests that people don't like what's
going on with the economy, regardless of
the actual numbers, which is what Donald
Trump actually benefited from in 2024.
How much of this is in response to the
elections we just had in Virginia where
you're sitting in New Jersey, Prop 50,
of course, in California, as well as the
New York City mayoral race? Well, I
think those elections tell us two
things. The first is that the
affordability pitch put out by
candidates like Abigail Spanberger and
Mikey Charl resonated. And it didn't
resonate only among Democrats. The
messaging also resonated among
independents who split heavily for
Democratic candidates. So that suggests
that people are concerned about the
economy. They're concerned about rising
prices. They're concerned about the
money in their pockets. And this was
exacerbated by the government shutdown.
The second thing that the elections tell
us is that the Republicans and Donald
Trump in particular listened because
it's only been after the elections that
we've seen the Republicans and this
White House pivot toward issues of
affordability. Now, the messaging is
different and he's trying to convince
people that the economy is better than
it feels, but it's certainly address
he's trying to address people's concerns
about kitchen table issues.
>> Isn't that what the Biden administration
though did as well? The Biden
administration, I remember former
President Joe Biden said at one point to
reporters, "The economy is doing well.
You should be writing about it." But it
wasn't what Americans are feeling. So,
how do they walk that very fine line?
It's a very difficult needle to thread.
The Biden administration was unable to
do it as the numbers were trending in
the right direction. People didn't feel
it and Biden and the Democrats were held
accountable in 2024. We see that same
thing happening to the Republicans in
2025 because people are not going to
vote based on what things used to be.
They're going to vote based on what
things are right now. So even if prices
are coming down, if prices are higher
than they want them to be, the party in
power is going to pay the price for
that. And we saw that on election day
heading into the midterms. Whichever
party is better able not only to bring
down prices and to make things more
affordable for Americans, but also to
convince them that they've done so will
win.
Well, we know on the convincing part
they are definitely trying to spend a
lot more time talking about this with
the president yesterday talking about
how inflation is normalizing. When it
comes to actually policy proposals, do
you see an appetite in Congress for this
$2,000 tariff dividend check President
Trump has proposed?
No. It's unclear that there's any
appetite. It's incredibly expensive. And
as the Secretary of the Treasury made
clear, Congress actually does have to
pass it. And so the promises that Donald
Trump is making on this front could
ultimately [clears throat] come back to
be a problem for him because it's not
clear that he has Republican support
behind him. Moreover, even though this
is affordability week and he's trying to
focus on prices, he's very easily
distracted and we see that many other
issues have risen to the forefront. So,
we're on Tuesday. He still has a few
more days this week to focus on
affordability, but it's unclear that
that's what the headlines are going to
be or that that's what Americans are
going to be focused on as the news
progresses over the course of the next
four days.
>> Right. Sometimes it is hard for any
administration to really try to control
the headlines. When it comes to
affordability though and his tariff
plans, the president has brought down
some tariff levels for key agricultural
and food products like bananas and
things like coffee and beef. Do you
think this is the administration moving
in the right direction on affordability
or is it them almost admitting that
tariffs do cause price increases?
I think it's a little bit of both. The
fact that they're bringing down those
prices and that they're modifying the
tariffs that they themselves implemented
suggests a change of course which
indicates that they think they might
have gone too far or made a mistake. By
the same token, people again don't
necessarily remember who was responsible
for who got them into a particular
position. They care about who gets them
out of it. And a year out from the
election, it's possible that the
Republicans will be able to make up some
ground on this front. But at this point,
when it comes to affordability, I'd
rather be a Democrat than a Republican
if you're trying to convince voters that
you're who can fix the problem.
When it comes to voter psychology ahead
of the midterm elections, at what point
does this really start to get into the
psyche of talking about inflation,
affordability, and linking that with the
current administration?
It's funny because for political
scientists and pundits and journalists,
we're already thinking about 2026. The
average American is not. And so both
parties have several months, at least
until the initial primaries and
competitive congressional districts, to
figure out what their messaging is and
to figure out what the economy actually
looks like and most importantly to
figure out the disconnect between the
objective measures and consumer
sentiment and what people actually think
about the economy. We've seen that
people's perceptions are much better
predictors of how they're going to vote
and who they think is responsible than
actual economic indicators. And that's
frustrating. often for incumbents in
office who have seen an uptick in
economic indicators in their favor when
those indicators just haven't resonated
with potential voters.
>> And let's just end on the midterms. You
and I obviously already focused on it.
If you had to tell our viewers one race
to watch, what would it be?
>> Oh, that's a really tough question. Um,
I'm actually not sure. I think we're too
far out. What I would say is that any of
the districts that Biden I'm sorry that
Kla Harris or Donald Trump won by less
than two or three points last time
around are fair play this time.
>> Right. So the margins potentially going
to be incredibly tight. Professor
Lawless, thank you so much for your
time. That was Jennifer Lawless,
professor of politics and public policy
at the University of Virginia. And
Jonathan, she said it's a very hard
needle to thread when you talk about
affordability. The Trump administration
is trying to blame it on the policies of
the Biden administration, but at the
same time, Americans are feeling it
right now, especially when you have beef
prices approaching $10 a pound.
>> Amarie with the latest down in
Washington. Amarie, thank you. Do you
know I really underestimated just how
much the politics of New York, New
Jersey, and Virginia would change the
conversation in this White House around
affordability going into the midterms
next year.
>> Yeah, well, they got the message and the
idea that Mandani is now going to be
welcomed to the White House highlights
just how much that message has changed.
I just wonder how they transmit a
message that is more complicated
economically. And the idea that
President Trump was at this McDonald's
conference and said, "I want to give a
very special thanks to McDonald's for
slashing prices for your most popular
items, bringing back extra value meals."
I wonder from a corporate standpoint
whether this is welcome or not. And I
say this because it's not just
McDonald's, it's also Walmart, right?
This is a president that's going to
certain companies and saying, "Look at
Walmart's Thanksgiving. Looks at
McDonald's Happy Meals." you know, this
sort of idea of cherrypicking examples
but then also putting certain companies
up on a pedestal. How much is that an
incentive to certain companies to make
certain deals to sort of, you know,
cater to that desire?
>> I think those companies too have shaped
policy in this country. [music]
I'd go back to April when they went into
the White House. They had a major
impact, I think, an [music] influential
take on on what developed for policy
around trade from this White House.
>> I wonder if it's a tit for tat. You tell
you can go tout the extra value meals.
You lower ter of some beef. [music] Make
our fries great again. Thank you.
>> It's good marketing.
>> Spotlight's on them, right? We wouldn't
be talking about it. They did this ages
ago.
>> I know. And And they had this conference
that I never knew about.
>> There you go. Now you do. [music]
>> Now I do.
[music]
>> Equities down by 0.5% on the S&P and the
NASDAQ down by 0.6. 3-day slide
developing into a 4-day fall on the S&P
500. We're down by about 35 points on
the S&P. For the technical strategists
out there tracking a 50-day moving
average,
138 sessions of [music] holding above
that level, the second longest run so
far this century. Thank you very much
for the team at Bloomberg News for
breaking down that stat. We snapped it
in yesterday's session. This is the kind
of thing that makes people nervous. A 3%
move off the index level. I know, I
know. I've been saying the same thing.
It's not that painful, but ultimately
things have been so one way for so so
long that breaking that kind of trend
gets your attention.
>> Yeah. And it's the worst 3-day run going
back to guess when April. [music] So
this is the first time that we've seen
this time type of shift away from that
50-day moving average and just in
general going back to Liberation Day. So
it raises the question, is this the
beginning of something greater or is
this just the sort of blowoff top that
gives everybody a really good feeling
heading into Christmas, the Santa Claus
rally? And this ultimately is going to
be what everybody talks about right now.
The fact that credit is participating
and that you are seeing the sort of more
consumerf facing aspects raising some
concerns.
>> Soft the tone again this morning at
least so far. We'll see if this changes
as we count you down to the opening
about two hours to go. Let's get you
some morning movers with Yhierra. Hey
yra.
>> Hi John. Home Depot is sounding the
alarm as it kicks off retail earnings.
Shares are falling 3.4% 4% after it's it
lowered its guidance, citing a host of
issues, but mainly a consumer [music]
not willing to spend on those pricier
home improvement projects. Plus, they
cited a weak store season that a a weak
storm season that hurt sales for things
like generators. Lowe's also falling in
sympathy and a correction for me that
reports tomorrow, not later today.
Meanwhile, we are also seeing the mic
seeing Microsoft and Amazon
underperforming the Mag 7. Both are down
nearly 2% after Rothschild and Co.
Radburn downgraded the stocks to neutral
with the analysts saying that the
underlying economics around generative
AI are far weaker than assumed and at a
time when the hyperscalers are spending
hundreds of billions of dollars on the
AI infrastructure built out. The analyst
there sees a higher risk that Microsoft
and Amazon are overbuilding. And we end
on Cloudflare. Those shares are also
falling 3 and [music] 3/4% in the
pre-market on a technical issue at the
internet security firm. [music] Nearly
5,000 cloud flare outages have been
reported according to down detector and
that is affecting sites like X. Earlier
[music] this morning it showed about
10,000 reports of issues at the social
media platform ChachiBT is also being
affected. Cloudflare says [music] that
it is working on the issue. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Just
getting some extra headlines from
Cloudflare. Continuing remediation
efforts. Customers may still see higher
error rates. So clearly the problems
continue.
>> Yeah. The fact that you're seeing
[music] such a huge draw down in the
shares, not huge, I guess a 4% uh
significant uh decline in futures
highlights how central some of these
systems are to everyday life and to
business models. And it raises this
question going forward. If there is some
sort of systemic importance to these
tech companies, what happens if one of
them goes down? Remember we saw that
with Amazon Web Services. Yeah. What
happens with Azour? What happens with
some of the others? You just start to
wonder, okay, well, what's the back stop
to this? And how are companies preparing
for that?
>> When things like this happen, you're
reminded of just how fragile the system
actually is.
>> Totally.
>> That stock [music] is down by close to
4% so far this morning. On our radar
this morning, Bitcoin briefly dropping
below 90K. The month-long slider raising
the cryptocurrency's gains for the year.
The decline coming as concerns grow over
interest rate policy and stretch
valuations. Elsewhere, another shakeup
at Apple. The designer behind the iPhone
Air is leaving the company for an AI
startup. Abidor Chowry's exit is making
waves given his rising profile and his
appearance in a video introducing the
iPhone Air. And finally, Amazon raising
15 billion in his first US dollar bond
offering in three years to help fund his
AI buildout. The bond sale is the latest
in a series of massive tech debt deals
pushing global issuance to a record of
more than 6 trillion this year.
>> Yeah. And the 6 trillion is for all
corporate issuance. That said, you're
seeing a massively increasing proportion
of issuance over the past couple of
months coming from the tech sphere. I
kept um I keep reading Robert
Schiffman's notes from Bloomberg
Intelligence. He's really doing some
great work and he talks about how the AI
debt super cycle isn't nearing the end.
Likely just the beginning because
ultimately these are the hyperscalers
that are most cash intensive cash heavy.
They have the ability to do this.
Yesterday the sale coming out was
completely overs subscribed. The 40-year
piece we talked about how the premium
above the Treasury rate was something
like 1.1% that percentage points that
came down to less than half a half a
percentage point. So it raises this
issue. What will cause the end of this?
And isn't the debt market essentially
opening the books and saying please go
for this because ultimately we are
willing to fund it.
>> $94 billion cash balance. I was reading
the note that came from Robert
yesterday. And a potential to generate
200 billion of free cash flow before
shareholder returns over the next 3
years or so. Not everyone is Amazon. Not
everyone is Alphabet. And that's the
question I keep going back to really.
Are we building these hopes and dreams
on the balance sheets of these guys or
on the promise of open AI with a revenue
profile at the moment that doesn't
really fit its spending expectations
over the next five or so years?
>> It's an important question. Are we
building the hopes and dreams of AI on
the idea of efficiencies in m in culling
data from your balance sheet as well as
just having back office support that
isn't generated entirely by humans? Or
is it the idea of some sort of
accelerated humanity and augmented
intelligence and this sort of uh
generative AI that supersedes anything
we can even imagine? Is it the hopes and
dreams of something that is sort of in
the realm of science fiction or is in
the realm of back office processes and
spreadsheets that are made more
efficient?
>> It's such a weird moment, Bremo, when
you really think about it. What OpenAI
has done is basically pushed Alphabet,
Meta, and other companies to believe
they're confronting an existential
moment, which is forcing them to spend
even more. They've got the money to do
it. Arguably, Open AAI doesn't based on
its balance sheet. And the longer OpenAI
continues doing exactly this, pushing
the others to spend more and more and
more. You just have this massive
commitment. They're like locking horns
right now committed to over capacity and
overspending. and we're trying to work
out when the music stops. Do you keep on
dancing in financial markets?
>> Yeah. Do we get to that moment of
efficiency where suddenly we can justify
all of these spend uh commitments that
we see out there? Or are we kind of just
all climbing and building something to
infinity? And ultimately, that's the
question that a lot of people are
grappling with.
>> Another big debt sale, this time from
Amazon, 15 billion in the last 24 hours.
Let's turn to the continent. Over in
Europe, the ECB lowering the amount of
capital that requires banks to hold
after sailing through a stress test
earlier this year. The move allowing
banks to continue making shareholder
payouts. Joining us now, the individual
behind the report, the ECB supervisory
board chair, Claudia Book. Claudia,
welcome back to the program. It's good
to hear from you as always. How would
you describe, how would you characterize
the state of the financial system at the
moment?
>> Well, thank you very much. Uh, first of
all, good morning, good afternoon um
from from Frankfurt. Um so I would say
that um the Euro area banking sector is
in a very robust position. So capital
ratios have increased. They're now at
16% a bit higher than last year. We
actually kept capital requirements
broadly stable. Yes, the stress test um
told us that the capital depletion which
is informing our pillar two guidance
would be a bit lower than it was in the
last cycle but losses were also higher
and profits were higher. So this is the
the combined effect that we are seeing
here. Broadly capital requirements stay
stable because there's a small increase
um in the pillar 2 requirements. Um so a
robust situation, good capitalization,
good profitability, good liquidity
positions of the banks. Non-performing
loans are also at a very low level right
now. But of course, we're seeing pockets
of vulnerabilities and the European
banks um operate in a challenging
geopolitical risk environment. So this
is why we always need to stay vigilant.
>> Claudia, do you think these banks are in
a position to maintain or perhaps even
increase the level of shareholder
payouts? Are they telling you that
they'll do that?
Well, I mean, of course, we look at this
over a three-year horizon. So, this is
pretty much business as usual that we
also discuss with the banks of course
of, of course, their their payout
strategy. So, what we've seen, I
mentioned the higher profits that we
have now in the system. And of course,
also this leads to higher payouts
compared to what we've seen in the in
the previous years. Um, but we're also
telling the banks, well, look at your
long-term business strategy. So what is
needed to um maintain resilient um to
have a good long-term sustainable
business model in the future that also
requires investment into into IT
infrastructures and so forth. So it's
it's a balancing act and we're seeing
that roughly um the banks are planning
payouts of 50% uh by and large but this
is of course also differs across banks
and there's a little bit of variation
over time in there. Claudia, yesterday
Bloomberg reported that UBS was in talks
to potentially move their headquarters
to the United States from Switzerland if
some of the capital requirements weren't
lowered as they thought that they were
punitive and they were going to be
raised. And I'm just wondering how much
of the effort to uh rightsize some of
the capital requirements is to try to
have a better competition, a better
backdrop with the United States and some
of the banks over there.
Well, I think you understand that I
never comment on individual banks. I
need to say this because you started
with a um case of a of a specific bank.
So, all I'm saying is just it's just
general about um the capital
requirements we have in the system right
now. I think they're very well
justified. As I said, um the Euro area
banks are in a good position right now,
but we also have risks and uncertainties
that lie ahead. So, that always needs to
be balanced. I think generally globally
we have with the um with the Basel
agreement we have very good global guard
rails when it comes to um uh capital
requirements and and a good framework
that also internationally active banks
need and I think it's very important in
particular in these in these often
difficult times that we also keep this
global guard rails.
>> How much are you keeping a focus on
private credit? We know that that's been
an increasing concern for a lot of
banks. uh and you've talked about how
you are looking for more transparency uh
in terms of lending to private credit
investors and beyond in the Euro region.
How how much progress are you making?
What do you see there?
>> Yeah, well, we have seen definitely
since the global financial crisis, we've
seen a shift of activity away from the
banks towards the non-bank financial
intermediation sector. So, we have a
better resilience in the in the banking
sector, which is which is good. We also
have um we have um um credit activity in
other parts of the financial system and
we need to see um how risky this is and
and whether vulnerabilities are building
up. So we've worked very closely with
banks that are also linked to the
private credit markets to see what risk
management they have in in place and we
um have also um given them advice on on
how to improve the risk management. One
of the things we are seeing is that it's
often not very transparent where the
risks are in with regard to private
markets, non-bank financial
intermediation. So I think there's also
a role for um for policy makers to
improve the transparency of parts of
this markets. Not all of this market is
intransparent, but part of it is and
that needs to be addressed.
>> Claudia, didn't we push the activity
away from the banks? Weren't the rules
that came in after GFC? Isn't this the
consequence of that that we push this
activity to places where we have less
transparency? Claudia, is that a failure
of the rules that we implemented after
the GFC? How would you think about that
dynamic?
>> No, I think the evidence is very clear
that the rules were that were that were
put into place after the global
financial crisis have really benefited
the system. So, as I said earlier, the
banks are more resilient. They're better
capitalized. It's better quality of
capital. This has not come at the
expense of their ability to lend to the
real economy. So this has been proven
over and over again by many studies and
I think we are in a much better place
both in terms of resilience and also the
competitiveness of the banks. I don't
think it's a contradiction. So I think
the banks that are more resilient that
have a broader resilience against all
the uncertainties out there I think
they're also more competitive in the
long run.
>> There's a word that you used in this
interview a few times vulnerabilities.
Can we just finish on vulnerabilities?
Could you be specific about the kind of
vulnerability that you're particularly
concerned about that you and the team on
the supervisory board are very focused
on going into the new year?
So I can be very concrete. So one of the
vulnerabilities is one of our priorities
for the next threeear cycle is to make
sure that banks are resilient against
geopolitical risks and macro financial
uncertainties. And so this is if you
take one geopolitical risk. We have for
example seen an increase in tariffs,
uncertainty about tariff policies and
not all of these higher tariffs have
made their full effect onto corporate
balance sheets and thereby also
potential um uh credit losses for the
banks. So this is one of the issues we
are looking into and it's very clear
that banks need to have good
underwriting standards in the future.
They also need to maintain their
resilience and capitalization. So these
are this is one of the areas we are
focusing on for the next three years
cycle.
>> Could I extend that also beyond just US
policy and US tariffs. Are you focused
on maybe an overexposure to the Chinese
economy in the European banking system
at a time when you've talked about
geopolitical risk? That would be my
number one, not US policy. I'd be
thinking more about the future of the
relationship between the Europeans and
China and what might happen with a place
like Taiwan. How are you considering
those kind of developments in the future
if they potentially do materialize?
>> Mhm. Well, my point about geopolitical
uncertainties was a very general one.
No, I didn't mention the US. So, um,
it's just generally I mean, we're just
in a very different environment than we
used to be years ago. And this needs to
be needs to be acknowledged. Look, we
don't know what is the most relevant
risk scenario, adverse geopolitical risk
scenario for the individual bank. And
this is why we will next year ask the
banks to do a reverse trust test which
is asking the banks what is the most
relevant geopolitical scenario given
your business model given your exposures
and what could be a scenario that could
be detrimental for your financial
soundness. So that's the kind of
question we will ask the banks and we
look forward to that information we will
get from the banks. they will use their
own internal um uh capital planning
tools to to give us that that that
answer. Um so but it's not that we know
what is the the relevant scenario for
the individual bank.
>> We look forward to seeing what they've
got to say. Claudia, we appreciate your
time and look forward to catching up
with you again soon. Claudia Buck there,
the ECB supervisory board chair on the
financial system in Europe.
>> I like that the reverse uh stress test.
Tell us what you're most focused on
because ultimately geopolitically aids
changing at any given moment. And when
you talk to banks, they might have a
very different view than the supervisory
boards that often have been looking at
past crisis and where that comes out.
>> Nothing to see here. Everything's okay.
I imagine is going to be the response
now.
>> You think so? I think that they might
raise some issues in terms of banks uh
in terms of some of the security that
they'd like to see coming.
>> The phrase geopolitics drives me nuts
when it comes to
>> I had noticed
>> financial executives. Be specific about
what we're talking about here. What are
we talking about? Geopolitics. What does
that even mean? I think that's just a
term that we throw around. Now, let's be
really hyper specific for the European
banks. I'd want to know what would
happen in the same way we had to sever
the relationship with Russia. What would
happen to the Europeans if we had to
sever the relationship with China? Isn't
that like the number one dominant
geopolitical risk out there?
>> I love that you're giving your reverse
stress test. This is it. I think
>> we should enforce that on the banks.
What would you do? You're you're going
to you're going to bring that up to the
>> walk into the Russia situation. Are we
going to sleepwalk into the same
situation with China?
>> How do they deal with the same uh type
of situation? Where do they provide
credit? What are their sort of know your
customer types of uh types of protocol
when it comes to some of these places?
>> Totally. I mean, you think about the
policies coming from the US right now.
Maybe the secondary sanctions from the
US on the likes of India and China.
These are all things you got to think
about. Anyway, save it for another day.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahi with more. Hi, Yahira.
>> Hi, John. Bank of America's monthly fund
manager survey found that investors cash
positions have dropped below a key
threshold, triggering a so-called sell
signal for [music] equities. Average
cash held by fund managers fell to 3.7%,
something that's happened just 20 times
since 2002. [music]
The survey ranked a potential AI bubble
as the biggest tail risk, while
investors also said that companies were
overinvesting.
Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Governor Lisa
Cook making her case [music] against
allegations of mortgage fraud, calling
the claims quote baseless and saying the
contradictions were [music] incomplete
snippets of full documents. The US
Supreme Court is set to hear arguments
in January on President Trump's move to
fire her.
And speaking of President Trump, he
touted his economic policies last night,
saying they have drawn trillions in
[music] new investments to fuel private
sector job growth and ease inflation.
Speaking at the McDonald's impact
[music] summit, the president thanked
the fast food chain for slashing prices
for its most popular items and bringing
back extra value meals. Dr. Bloomberg
brief. [music] John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks very much. Up
next on a program, funding AI ambitions.
The scale of spending is so massive that
the market is effectively putting a 100%
probability that this is [music] going
to be truly transformational.
>> Kay her of JP Morgan Asset Management
joins us next
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. under surveillance this morning
funding AI ambitions.
>> Nobody knows which is [music] a fact as
to what the true uh profitability will
be and that is important not in itself
because the scale of spending [music] is
so massive that the market is
effectively putting a 100% probability
that this is going to be truly
transformational going forward given the
scale of spending increasing the credit
markets are going to be tapped.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Amazon joining Meta, Alphabet, Oracle,
all with multi-billion dollar bond sales
to help fund AI buildouts. Kay her, the
US global fixed income currency and
commodity CIO at JP Morgan Asset
Management joins us now for more. K,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning, John.
>> Debt from Alphabet, 40-year debt from
Amazon. What are these guys up to and
why do investors want a piece of it?
>> So, I think the first thing to remember
is these are highly rated companies with
a lot of free cash flow. If you think
about the five hyperscalers, most of
them have enough cash on the balance
sheet to pay for this debt. It's the
opportunity though to put debt in the
markets. You know, yesterday the
investment grade credit market had $26
billion of new issuance, all of which
absorbed very easily. You know, initial
price talk on the Amazon deal yesterday
was, you know, 25 30 wider of of a
concession. It ended up pricing pretty
much on the screws and traded there. So
there's a lot of demand for fixed income
here at these levels,
>> even for 40-year tanches. I mean, what
do you make of the 40 and the 50-year
pieces of some of this debt?
>> Look, I think when you think about this,
you're going out a long time. And the
question about the returns that
companies are going to generate for this
uh the AI investment, it's it's awfully
uncertain. But I think these companies
have a lot of cash flow. They can repay
the debt. I think I would be more
focused on the multiples that are paid
in the equity markets [laughter] than on
their ability to repay when they've got
cash on the balance sheets. Lisa,
>> the best way to say check your own house
before accusing the debt market of
paying. So,
>> yeah, you think that that's what's going
on. I just wonder if there's a better
story to tell maybe in either
speculative grade credit or outside of
the US where you are more insulated from
some of the tech story because even if
these are highly capitalized companies
the whipsaw in sentiment around AI seems
to have driven a lot of the uh the
movement recently. So, I think if you
look at the bond market, the bond
market's holding up okay. Look at
yesterday or the last few days, you've
had a sell-off. Bonds are actually doing
what they're supposed to be doing,
right? Think about it. The A's up almost
7% this year. Bonds are delivering
stability, diversification, liquidity. I
know it's boring and old-fashioned, but
that's kind of where we are.
>> Is that just a US bond story or do you
see that across sovereigns?
>> No, I think that is true broad more
broadly. I'm obviously much more focused
on the US, but I think broadly that is
true. Bonds are doing what they're
supposed to be doing here.
>> We've had a 40 basis point plus move on
the year. I think on the US 10ear we're
down another four basis points this
morning to about 4.1%. Some convulsions.
I've used that word a few times in the
last 24 hours with regards to fixed
income. Some convulsions in JGBs. What's
happening at the long end of the JGB
curve and what's the potential spill
over into global markets?
>> So I think you've had some geopolitical
uncertainty in the JGB. You've got a new
prime minister out there. Some you know
I'm on TV. You got to be careful what
you say because if you're going to use
the word convulsions, people can make a
lot of interpretations.
>> I use the word convulsion. You don't
have to. Is there a potential though to
re-anchor global bond yields higher
given what's developing in the Japanese
bond market?
>> There's always a potential for higher,
there's an equal potential for lower. I
mean, every day there's a market made in
this. I mean, look at the Fed or look at
pricing on the Fed. I think the last
time I was here, it was almost 100%
certainty that the Fed was going to cut
another 25 basis points. Here we are.
that's now below 50% and so there's
always a market to be made in these and
buyers and sellers.
>> Do you think the risk is balanced into
that Fed decision?
>> I think the market is pricing it pretty
much balanced. I think the probability
is now below 50% today, but we actually
think the Fed's going to continue. We
think the Fed cuts again in December.
>> What's going to deliver that move?
Another wheat jobs report.
>> So, it's funny. Um, yesterday one of my
trustees was in and reminded me that
they always call us bond ghouls. We're
bond ghouls. So bond ghouls as bond
ghouls, you know, we can complain about
anything. So we spent the whatever
60some days of the of the federal
government shutdown complaining that
there's no data and now we're obsessing
because there's data starting. We get
ADP at 8:30. We get non-farm payrolls on
Thursday. So I think if you look I mean
the data is going to be anything you
want it to be, right? We're going to get
a September number on Thursday.
Consensus [music] is 57,000 or whatever
it is. Um, but you all know that the
margin of error for economists on those
non-farm payrolls is plus or minus
100,000 [music]
jobs. So, it's going to be interesting
to see what the Fed does here.
>> I'd forgotten about ADP. We get the
weekly number later this morning, right?
>> 8:30 this morning, you get ADP.
>> That's your promo from Kate Hurt of JP
[laughter] Morgan Asset Management.
Don't chase this market. Let it come to
you.
>> The question isn't [music] will the
market be healthy, but will it remain
bifurcated?
>> There are legitimate questions about
valuations.
>> I do think that the market is too
negative on the economic outlook.
>> If you get any more downdraft in
technology, it's [music] going to be
hard to rally through the end of the
year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. We're
pulling back again. Near session lows,
down by [music] 610 of 1% on the S&P,
down by 710 on the NASDAQ, down by 3/4
of 1% on the Russell this morning. The
earnings so far from Home Depot, not
great. The outlook not great either.
Tearing us up for Walmart and Target
later in the week.
>> Yeah, and it really highlights is this
just a housing specific or housing
related issue. big ticket items usually
associated with renovations that might
plague Lowe's tomorrow and certainly
[music] did seem to hamper some of the
Home Depot earnings or is this a broader
consumer issue that you're starting to
see percolate out into [music] the
shares of certain travel stocks and you
are hearing in some of the commentary
that's the reason why Target and Walmart
are going to be so important. How much
could they pass along price increases
and how much do they see the
acceleration the reaceleration in the
underlying economy early next year that
so many people are banking?
>> They don't see it going into year end
based on what we've heard from Home
Depot so far. Are we going to see it in
some of the data? September payrolls,
the estimates keep pouring in. We've got
about 19 economists putting out
estimates right now and the [music]
median estimate is 65K. 65K based on
what we've heard on Wall Street is a
pretty decent number these days. You get
65, it's going to feed that belief that
things are starting to pick up again.
>> This is really the crux of the issue. 65
wouldn't have been good 2 [music] years
ago. Right now it sounds really good
because some people are saying that the
total number of jobs needed to break
even [music] based on the immigration is
significantly lower. You will get other
people saying no this is a shell game.
This is actually a very poor economy.
And take a look at the overall hiring of
new graduates and [music] you could see
the pain. You could paint the own story
that you want. We will get ADP data as
we just found out from Kate uh later
this morning that could potentially
later this hour uh that potentially will
give a color uh heading into some of
those numbers. 8:30 [music] Eastern time
for the weekly ABP. TD Securities
looking for 125 this week for September
payrolls for whatever that's worth. 125
is the high estimate.
>> So if it gets uh if it is high, how much
are people going to explain that out by
catchup from over the summer and how
much does that really point to
forward-looking strength? I mean really,
you can paint whatever narrative you
want, especially given the fact this is
September data and we're going to get
very messy October data that everyone
will obsess over and at the same time
will be considered irrelevant because
we're not getting an unemployment rate.
I mean ultimately it just gets messier
and messier.
>> Super noisy October, maybe even a noisy
November and a Federal Reserve that sits
there with no clear data. So what do you
do? Governor Waller making a case
yesterday afternoon that you cut
interest rates and essentially
communicating there is nothing that
[music] can happen between now and
December 10th that's going to stop him
from voting for a 25 basis point
reduction. [music]
>> And this to me is really a question. How
entrenched are Fed opinions across the
lines? Right. There are sort of the
centrists who are undecided and say it's
going to be up to the data. We hear that
from Mary Daly. We also heard that from
Neil Kashkari to some degree. And then
you have people like Chris Waller who
are going to cut rates. You [music] also
of course have Steven Myron who will cut
rates. And then you have others who have
come out and really uh seem to not want
to do that. Lori Logan for example or uh
Beth Hammock. So you can see the lines
shifting. It's sort of like a Supreme
Court, right? It's sort of like one
flank here, one flank here, then the
centrist that potentially could be
skewed either way. fallen off the radar
a little bit. Should find out who the
new Fed chair is before year end as
well.
>> Yeah, that's kind of fallen off the
radar into year end, but that could
change the debate about what you might
expect to happen [music] in 2026. This
morning in 2025, equity futures a little
bit softer. Bond yields lower by five
basis points through the belly of the
curve on tens at the moment. We're down
about four to 4.1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Lisa Charlotte of
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management as the
tech rally retreats. [music]
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research as labor
data trickles in and Jason Tyler of
Northern Trust not yet seeing an AI
bubble. We begin this hour with stocks
sliding on valuation concerns. Lisa
Charlotte, CIO of Morgan Stanley Wealth
Management, saying the following. While
the 26 bull case remains intact, there
are some headwinds from the
affordability crisis and growing
pessimism in the labor market. Lisa
joins us now for more. Lisa, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. not just about AI,
not just about big tech.
>> It is not. It's about the K-shaped
economy. It's about that consumer, the
lower end of the K. And this idea that
consumer sentiment, it's not even their
behavior at the minute. It's this
sentiment is so negative. You, you know,
to the question in the University of
Michigan, you know, what do you think
job prospects are in a year, right?
We're at the worst reading since 1980.
um you know folks are really um
depressed about about the potential for
the job market and it's not just
cyclical I think it is this hand ringing
about you know the secular story of gen
>> I think we've got to stay on that 45
years of events just think about
everything that's happened GFC the
pandemic and you Mitch is telling us the
consumers are telling us that this is
the worst they felt about the labor
market across all those things that have
Yes,
>> that's bonkers.
>> It is.
>> What do you think is behind that?
>> I I think it really is uh this
existential fear. I think it starts with
what they're observing as Lisa noted
with new graduates not being absorbed uh
into the labor force at the normal rate.
Uh but what they're seeing at the
workplace and and you know all the
visions of how I'm going to be automated
away whether it's from you know the
robotics end of it, right? if you're,
you know, a physical laborer, uh, or if
you're a knowledge worker, uh, from, you
know, an aenic, uh, entity or an aenic
bot.
>> Do we have to have that kind of future
where in some ways robots take over
humans in order to justify valuations
where they are?
>> Uh, I don't think so. Um, you know, our,
uh, take has been, you know, here we
are, there's 153 uh, Americans working
in the United States labor force. The US
uh stock markets are the envy of the
world. We're, you know, within two to
three% of all-time highs. Our profit
margins and our returns on equity are at
historic highs. Uh you know, this is uh
you know, as we were talking about uh
before we got on air, you know, some of
this is the technology is here and is
this, you know, a solution in in search
of the problem. Uh I don't find a lot of
people saying that America has a
profitability problem. Well, so uh Dan
Pinto of JP Martin, Daniel Pinto came
out earlier this morning and was talking
about this and said that there probably
is an correction that has more to go
particularly with respect to AI and said
that in order to justify these
valuations, you are considering a level
of productivity that it will happen but
it may not happen as fast as the market
is pricing in now. Is that how you see
it as well that there needs to be some
sort of retracement that potentially
these are the stocks that could trade
sideways for months if not a year before
the use cases grow into some of the
valuations?
>> I I I'm in that camp. Um I know some of
my compatriots at Morgan Stanley are
not. But um you know what's built into
the 2026 earnings forecast already is
about another 130 basis points of margin
expansion and productivity gains. That
is a lot uh of productivity gains in one
year across an economy. Uh and so our
best guess is that you know next year
the earnings will be decent. Uh and
decent to me is up 5 to 10%. Uh but
things that you know border around 15 to
20% is a push because it's a level of
productivity that I just don't think the
American workforce is ready to deliver
let alone embrace. Can US stocks
outperform if you don't have the AI
names leading the charge?
>> I actually think that they can. And the
reason is is that I think that there
have been huge portions of our market
that have been squeezed out or forgotten
right over the last uh 15 years by you
know this huge tech leadership. In fact,
you know, our best guess is that next
year we're going to see some nice return
in leadership to financial services as
uh you know, we get deregulation and and
uh animal spirits returning to markets,
uh healthcare, energy. So, we do think
that there are places to make money in
this market that leadership can new
leadership can emerge or at least
challenge uh some of these tech leaders.
Uh and that to me is a very healthy
stock market. Lisa, could you describe
what's happening and what the starting
point is going into 26? So, we've seen a
3% decline at the index level on the
S&P. How much damage is there beneath
the surface away from big tech?
>> Um, so there has been damage. Obviously,
we've seen it, you know, in some of the
more macro sectors. We're seeing it in
cryptocurrencies. Uh, obviously, you
know, there's there's some pain. Um, so
we do think that that there are
opportunities. Like I said, we'd be we'd
be picking through um you know, some of
the financial services stocks, some of
these consumer stocks, um some of the
health care stocks have started to
recover here. Um so there are lots of
things to do.
>> What needs to go right with consumer
discretionary into next year. So I think
the fundamental thing that needs to go
right is that, you know, some of our
worries and the fears about both the job
market um and inflation uh need to kind
of tamp down and we need to see decent
income growth uh for the bottom half of
the K to quote unquote hang in there.
>> How much do we need rate cuts,
significant rate cuts?
>> Um so it's an interesting question. I
think, you know, the small to midsize
business sector, parts of private
credit, I think need uh close to 200 uh
basis points of rate cuts. The key thing
is we're probably not going to get it.
Uh and that's why there's a little bit
of this current dance that we're doing
with the Fed, I think, um which is kind
of moot. It's like what's the
difference? Another 50 basis points. Who
who is that helping and who is it
hurting? Uh, if anything, it's just kind
of steepening the long end of the curve,
which doesn't help your housing market.
>> Lisa Shallot, it's good to see you as
always. Thank you. Lisa Shannon there,
CIO of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management,
50 could do more harm than good.
>> Yeah, the idea that it steepens the
curve and it leaves the mortgage market
in even more pain. The idea that private
credit needs 200 to perform highlights
the gap right now in perception versus
reality and is part of what's fueling
some of the angst that you're seeing
reflected in equity shares. You want to
drop the front end aggressively, the
balance sheet needs to do some work to
count the long end of the yield curve
with inflation closer to three than than
two.
>> You mean yield curve control is sort of
the inevitability. That's what people
think.
>> Maybe I would love to get some insight
on the interview questions. You know,
>> monetizing the debt. Here we go, baby.
>> Is that what the dollar [laughter] story
is that the dollar story was picking up
on at the start of the year?
>> Uh, 100%. I mean, you know, Scott
Bessant knows what he's doing. He's just
going to jam it. He's he's going to buy
it.
>> You expect another round of that next
year? Another round of dollar weakness?
>> Yes, I do. I do. Um, again, I know my
compatriots at at Morgan Sally have have
uh moderated their view and said, you
know, they think the dollar's flat next
year. Uh, but I do think we're going to
have another bout of it. Especially, you
know, no one's talking about this, but
you know, Trump's throwing out there
that, hey, I'm giving everyone the
tariff bonus check. Well, what weren't
the tariffs over 10 years supposed to
pay for your tax bill? Like, wasn't that
the whole point? So, let's see. You had
a regressive tax. It's called tariffs.
And now I'm giving you the rebate of the
money I took from you.
>> I'm keeping track. [laughter] I'm trying
to keep track. Lisa, you keep bringing
me back. I'm trying to go. It's good to
see you. Thank you. Lisa Shannon and
Morgan Stanley, everyone. Equity futures
on the S&P down by 4/10en of 1%. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
with more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. AI cloud startup Lambda said
it raised over $1.5 billion dollars in
its latest funding round. [music] The
company, which rents out access to
advanced AI chips, plans to use the
capital to buy additional NVIDIA GPUs
and build its own data centers. Its
sites are set on moving from being a
data center tenant to an owner, having
raised $2.3 [music]
billion so far in total funding with
plans to hire engineers and operators.
And Bitcoin has wiped out all of its
gains this year as investors as
investors risk appetite [music] sour.
The currency fell below $90,000 for the
first time in 7 months. So, we are
trading above that now. The drop comes
as interest rate [music] policy
uncertainty and stretch valuations weigh
on broader markets. And President Trump
doubling down on his call to send checks
to Americans [music] to cover health
care costs. Trump posted on Truth Social
earlier, "The only healthc care I will
support or approve is sending the money
directly back to the people with nothing
going to the big fat rich insurance
companies who have made trillions and
ripped off America long enough." [music]
Dr. Bloomberg, great. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, the Morning Calls Plus, John
Lavalo of UBS as the housing market
faces significant headwinds. That
conversation just around a corner live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> As the small business data starts to hit
the economy, that's where we're going to
realize, wow, [music] this is where the
jobs are. And that would probably fit
very well with Home Depot type of thing,
right? That's the small contractors,
right? Those are the ones who are
struggling right now. I think the
economy is worse than we realize. I
think do you [music] think the Fed
should cut because I think that's data
is going to show up weaker and weaker.
That's an argument we've heard from
Governor Waller of the Federal Reserve.
An argument we heard earlier on this
morning from Peter Cheer of Academy
Securities. If you're checking in for
the price action, here it is. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 down another
4/10en of 1% [music]
on the NASDAQ down by 0.5. That's the
price action. Here are your morning
calls. First up, Redburn downgrading
Microsoft to neutral for the first time,
calling the industry's Gen AI narrative
[music] increasingly misplaced. The
stock is down by 1.7%. Your second call
from Luke Capital are grinning Alphabet
to buy, saying a wall of worry has been
obliterated under AI enthusiasm. That
stock is up by another 1.1%. [music]
And finally, Stifel raising his price
target on Nvidia to 250 ahead of
earnings tomorrow, viewing Nvidia as
best [music] positioned to benefit from
AI compute demand. The stock is down
again this morning by 0.9%.
Let's stick with earnings. Home Depot
cutting his fullear guidance in another
warning about the strength [music] of US
consumers. The company also reporting
comparable third quarter sales that
missed estimates. Drew reading is
tracking a story and Drew joins us now
for more. [music] Drew, not a great
outlook from this company. Not great
commentary either. What was your take?
So, you know, I I think the challenges
facing Home Depot are pretty well
documented. You have heightened consumer
caution. You have a weak housing market
this quarter. They're lapping some storm
related activity from last year. So,
certainly a lot of challenges. I don't
necessarily think the results today
reflect a sharp reversal um in the
business. I still think the core
underlying trends are probably pretty
stable. I think the problem is that
things aren't getting better. I think
people are looking for that inflection
in home improvement retail and we just
haven't got it. And as you mentioned,
you know, the commentary going forward
is certainly much more subdued. Um, so I
think that's really the issue is that
the things aren't getting better yet.
>> They are getting better even with an
easing of mortgage market conditions.
And Drew, that's what stands out for me.
And to read the line verbatim from the
CFO, we'd expected demand to begin
accelerating gradually in the back half
of the year as interest and mortgage
rates eased. But but that hasn't
happened. Drew, why do you think that
hasn't developed? What's happened to the
relationship between mortgage rates and
what happens with a company like this
one?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. And you
know, we've been saying for a while,
while mortgage rates get all the
attention, they're obviously a key
component of affordability, they're not
the only thing that's impacting the
housing market. Um, you know, if it
were, we we'd have seen the builders do
a lot better. We got some some data on
the new home market yesterday which
showed applications to purchase new
homes um you know down from last quarter
down 3% from last year and well below
seasonal norms. If you think about what
the builders have been doing they've get
been getting their buyers rates in the
low three threes four 5% range. So much
better than what we're seeing you know
at the the headline. Um so I think what
that what what that tells us is that
it's not just rates but it's really
consumer caution. you have consumers who
are more concerned about the direction
of the economy, more concerned about the
the labor market. And when you have um
those type of concerns out there,
there's certainly more hesitation in
terms of spending, particularly as it
relates to Home Depot and big ticket
discretionary categories like kitchen
and bath remodels and flooring projects.
>> Stock is down in the pre-market by close
to 4%. Drew, appreciate your time this
morning. Thank you, sir. Drew running
there of Bloomberg on Home Depot. John
Navalo saying homebuilders and building
products over at UPS saying he's still
bullish on the setup for the
homebuilders heading into 26. However,
we're definitely concerned about
consumer confidence and employment. John
joins us now for more. John, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Hey John, good to see you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. What's the
relationship between say a Home Depot
and the companies that you cover?
>> I think it comes down to what Drew was
saying. It's consumer confidence. I
mean, we still believe heading into 2026
that it will be a better year for
housing than 2025, but consumer
confidence and unemployment are big
headwinds. Now, on a positive front, if
we want to think about the other side of
of of the coin, you have uh inventory
levels that are a lot better across
markets. Intent to buy is still very
high. Valuations are compelling at 10
times earnings. And really, I mean, the
building blocks sort of underlying a
recovery feel like they're coming
together. But it is going to take that
consumer confidence to to improve.
>> So a lot of people say that to solve the
issue of home affordability, you have to
build more. But we see right now, as you
said, the inventory problem seems to be
getting better. And a lot of house
builders have actually struggled to sell
the homes that they've been building in
certain parts of the country at the
prices that they want. How much is this
everyone hoping that people can just get
the ammunition to meet the prices where
people actually want to sell right now?
>> It's a good question. And so I think
that look I think that again intent is
is is very strong. People want to buy.
37% of respondents to our survey said
hey look we want to buy over the next 12
months. That compares to the 30%
average. It is the ability to pull the
trigger. And I think that the the folks
that are out in the market today are
well financed and able to actually
transact. It's just is this the right
time to do it? I feel like the the
purchase decision is sort of being put
off if anything else. So, I guess that
what I'm trying to get at is how much is
this trying to solve the problem without
housing prices going down because
ultimately there are a lot of people who
have a stake in the ground who don't
want housing prices to go down, but they
would have to ultimately go down to make
this uh this housing market more fluid
or mortgage price mortgage uh rates
would have to go down so much that
people can get money more or less not
for free but for much more cheaply so
they can lever up.
>> So, I'm not sure you're going to see
either. I don't think we're going to see
mortgage rates come down significantly.
I'm not making a call on rates that's
above my pay grade. I also don't think
that you're going to see home prices
fall. There's just not enough inventory
in the market. What I think the
government really should focus on is
kind of improving the cost equation for
the builders. The ability to get more
sort of supply at a lower cost. If you
think about it, the housing industry is
the only industry that I can think of in
the country that has had negative
productivity since 1987, right? So, we
need to actually invest in technology
and infrastructure in order to make the
process more fluid.
>> Can you give us an example of that?
>> Yeah, I we actually did a three-year
study, believe it or not, on just wall
panels alone and wall panels. So
building wall panels within a
manufacturing facility and bringing them
out to the job site cut the actual um
framing days by 30.
>> So closer to prefab homes.
>> Closer to prefab.
>> I've seen some of that develop in
Europe. I've been seeing some of those
houses put together. They're very
attractive as well, but it's quite niche
and they're quite expensive too because
I don't think they're doing sort of mass
market homes. I've seen some come out of
Germany that cost a fair amount of
money. What kind of technology are you
seeing developed that can do us do
things on a on a bigger level, a greater
scale?
>> So I think there's two different ways.
You can do complete off-site
construction is what I'm getting at is
doing more than the wall panel. So, it's
the roof trusses, the floor joists, and
etc. Bringing them out to the job site
and actually constructing. I saw a home
that was fully framed from, you know,
basically up to plate level in three,
you know, three and a half hours, which
is remarkable. The other way you could
go is just manufactured housing. So, you
know, homes that are built completely in
the factory and brought out. This Road
to Housing Act that's just recently been
passed by the Senate is trying to kind
of move that along. There's a couple
different things in there that could
help these homes uh get better financing
and better acceptance by consumers. So,
there are some things in the works that
can help.
>> Isn't the goal to bring down the price
of some of these housing? Yes, for the
home builders, but also for the end
consumer. I mean, I guess that I'm
wondering how this all gets down to the
idea that prices don't have to go down
and won't go down in housing. But these
are all measures to create more supply
more cheaply that can be sold at a much
lower price point. No.
>> Well, I think it's it's a it's a
function of helping on the supply side.
Yes. So, the helping the builders to
reduce the cost so they can put more
affordable housing into the market. So,
yeah, the you can mix down but not
necessarily, you know, deteriorate the
the equity that's built up in people.
So,
>> it's funny, isn't it, John? cuz these
ideas have been around for a long time.
>> What what's taken so long to get it off
the ground?
>> It's an industry that's been reluctant
to change. Um not that dissimilar to the
auto industry before the the you know
the 80s when when the the Japanese came
in and revolutionized things. And so I
think we need that catalyst and you know
what this may be the catalyst. Um we're
just in in a crunch right now for
housing.
>> Do we have enough time? And by do we
have enough time I mean does Washington
have enough time? because they operate
on four-year political cycles and some
of them shorter cycles than that. Do
they have enough time? Are these the
kind of things you can implement and see
results in a year in two years? No. So,
I think what they need to do in a
near-term basis, there's a couple things
they could do. One is the GSC's which
are under conservatorship, they could
buy MBS for their own portfolios. They
could do more of that. That could help
reduce the spread. Also, tariffs.
there's about $9,300 on housing, you
know, a house alone in tariffs. I mean,
those are the things that could help,
you know, in the immediate term. Longer
term, the things that we've been talking
about could help. Um, you know, also,
uh, some of the ideas that that the
government has thrown out in terms of
reducing restrictions across, you know,
municipalities, in terms of building,
that's all longer term, you know, type
stuff. So, no, that's going to take
time.
>> It's a lot of work to be done. John, I
appreciate your time. Thank you, sir.
John Navala there of UBS on the housing
market.
>> Yeah, it's going to be very much a
political discussion because ultimately
this goes to the economic [music]
question that we're seeing raised by
Home Depot, which is can you have a
reacelerating economy with the housing
market not participating?
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Stephanie Roth at Wolf Research as
the labor market data continues to drip
out. Plus, Yhara with your morning
movers. Amma sports surging as
athleisure demand bounces back.
>> [music]
>> The opening bound about 60 minutes away.
Equities pulling back by 0.5 on the S&P
500 down by close to 7/10en of 1% on the
Nasdaq. So the weakness continues into
day four on the [music] S&P 500 with
some morning movers. Let's cross over to
Yhira for more. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. We start with a big mover to
the upside and that is [music] Ammer
Sports. shares are rising 11% after it
lifted its fullear guidance. People are
touching grass and experiencing [music]
the great outdoors and that is helping
lift demand for its hiking shoes and its
brand Wilson which of course [music]
makes tennis gear and given there has
been so much negative sentiment around
the consumers. The results really did
come as a surprise helping lift [music]
shares strongly this morning. Meanwhile,
we are seeing Home Depot shares falling
4% now in the pre-market. They lowered
their fullear guidance, blaming a
[music] host of issues, but mainly a
consumer that is wary to take on those
big pricey home improvement projects.
[music]
They also said that a a weak storm
season hurt sales for things like
generators. We'll see if Lowe's, which
is reporting tomorrow, confirms [music]
this weakness. And we end on the chip
makers also seeing some weakness this
[music] morning. Nvidia, Micron, and AMD
all in the red. The name's really at the
center of the AI buildout as concerns
[music]
continue to mount over an AI bubble.
While there is no single catalyst today,
we have just seen this [music] continued
nervousness. We saw that yesterday with
the announcement that Peter Teal sold
his entire Nvidia stake all [music]
leading up to the makeorb breakak moment
this Wednesday when it reports earnings.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it.
Appreciate touching grass as well. You
[music] touch enough grass [laughter]
touch with nature. Was that Wasn't that
the mayor? Uh, no. It was the governor
of of Utah telling us to touch grass. I
touch grass. [music] You touch grass?
>> Not enough of it.
>> I think I'm a better person as a result.
>> Much calmer, more relaxed.
>> Yeah. Take off my shoes.
>> More in [music] tune with nature,
apparently.
>> Okay, let's get back to this market,
please.
>> Let's get you some ADP numbers. Why are
they always late? Ender Karen has more.
Ender, good morning. What have we got?
>> So, they fell an average of 2 and a half
thousand a week into four weeks to
November 1. John, that's the headline
coming from ADP right now. H on the one
hand, that's a soft number, but it
perhaps maybe suggests that those the
pace of those losses is slowing a little
bit. Remember, it's a new data series.
We're trying to get our heads around
this, but it the bigger picture is this
builds into what's expected to be um
important week for giving us more
broader detail on the jobs market. ADP
detail today. We're going to get
non-farm payrolls on Friday.
Expectations there for maybe around
50,000 odd jobs gained in the month. uh
unemployment rate staying stable, but
both indicators ADP today and payrolls
on Friday are all expected to lean into
uh what's expected to be an ongoing soft
labor market for the time being at
least.
>> Massive range on estimates that I'm
seeing and these estimates keep
changing. So, city groups at 105. So,
that's Andrew Henhorse. This is for
payrolls on Thursday. Ender at the lows,
Scotia Bank at 20. Andrew, if you're at
the central bank, the Federal Reserve
going into the December meeting, you've
been told you're not getting an
unemployment rate for the month of
October. I don't know what the November
jobs report is going to look like. How
useful is September and September alone
together with a high frequency read from
ADP and some jobless claims that seem to
be okay?
>> Yeah, it's an interesting time, John.
So, the September data should be
somewhat clean, as you know, but again,
that's so far in the rearview mirror
now. The October data will be much
choppier as you just explained.
obviously make complicating the picture
for any central banker or policy maker
in this. The partial indicators are all
interesting too. You know, we've had an
indicator this week of advanced notices
on layoffs surging over the month of
October combined with the anecdotal
headlines from companies letting go of
staff. It's all while it's a mixed
picture, it all seems to be leaning
towards at the very least a softening
labor market. And by the way, last night
we had a very interesting speech from
Fed Governor Chris Waller who who really
dismissed the idea that they're flying
blind or going through fog. He said the
data is clear. The anecdotal evidence is
clear from private sector and everywhere
else that is that the jobs market is
softening. It is weakening. He's hearing
that companies are moving from this
phase of a no hiring, no firing to
moving into the firing phase. And that's
why he wants a rate cut in in December.
So yes, complications around the data,
but some people very cleareyed on this,
including Governor Waller, for example.
>> And a thank you and a current there of
Bloomberg. a speech from Governor
Wallally yesterday afternoon suggesting
he's going to vote again for another
interest rate reduction on December
10th. This came from Nila Richardson of
ADP. Let me share this with you. New
hires are a larger share of employment.
I'll read some of what Nita had to say
this morning. Hiring has slowed from
earlier in the year. So, one would think
that new hires, which we define as
workers added to an employer payroll in
the last 3 months, would be a shrinking
share of the workforce. Instead, they're
on the upswing. So, what gives? Neighbor
says in October, new hires accounted for
4.4% 4% of all employees. ADP payroll
data shows up from 3.9% a year ago. This
growing share of new hires would seem to
run counter to the slowed pace of
hiring. That contradiction tells us a
lot about today's jobs rem market. And
the conclusion is that new hires
typically fluctuate with the business
cycle. But the aging US workforce means
that demographics have begun playing a
bigger role in hiring decisions.
>> Yeah, that's her takeaway. Exactly that.
that employers are taking on a bigger
share of new hires even with the
slowdown in the jobs market. But that
suggests more workers are heading for
the exits, meaning retiring, etc.
because of the aging demographic, which
highlights just how complicated this
labor market is. This looks like a
negative number. And at the same time,
under the hood, you could see this turn
with people may be leaving, other new
people coming in. The one caveat to that
is that pay isn't exactly accelerating
for some of these new hires. So, it's
not as though it's an incredibly uh
asymmetric market with a lot of new
hires getting a lot of amazing offers.
Nonetheless, not exactly dead in the
water the way that some people might
describe it.
>> We need some more data and we'll get
that data on Thursday. Stephanie Roth of
Wolf Research looking for a solid 60,000
payrolls on Thursday's jobs report,
writing the hawkish Fed narrative may
persist through the report, but the
narrative may change a bit with
subsequent data that's likely to be more
mixed. Stephanie joins us now for more.
Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's start with September. Why the
bounce back? What are you looking for?
>> So, we should see a a bit of a bounce
back in the sense that the trend over
the summer was probably not the real
trend. So, we think not only will
September be decent, but you also will
probably get some upward revisions to
August. So, the 29,000 3-month average
could easily look like something in the
60s. So, that would be a much different
trajectory because there was seasonality
problems over the summer. There was
significant tariff uncertainty that has
started to fade. The comment that you
that you made about perhaps we're
starting to see a bit of a pickup in
terms of the the job market in the month
of October seems like a trend that we
expect to persist in the next couple
months where you might start to see
cyclical industries start to hire again.
>> So pair that with consumer confidence
that's dead in the water with people
feeling really bad about their job
opportunities with the slow pace of
hiring and and wage growth with the
Chipotles of the world and the sweet
greens and this morning the Home Depot.
How do you square a story of
accelerating growth with what we're
hearing from companies and what we're
hearing from consumers?
>> Well, this is growth turning at the
margin. It's not as if growth is picking
up to a very high pace. For 2026, we put
out our outlook. We're looking for 2.1%
growth, which is just above t just above
trend. And then at the margin, you're
probably like to see the low-end
consumer get a bit better. It's a price
level problem, though. A lot of people
feel bad about the level of prices in
the economy. And that is a hard problem
to solve because prices don't fall in
the economy unless you have a large
recession. So the administration is
trying to put together policies that
will bring down the level of prices, but
that's just not realistic in this
environment.
>> So this goes to a paper that you wrote
recently about how Washington can't do
this and overnight in terms of the cost
of living. What do you think then is
going to be the solution? Do you think
that it only can be driven by a
recession or that there are other uh
marginal kind of efforts that could
happen to bring down at least some of
the uh inflation if not the price level?
>> You're you're probably not going to
bring down the price level. certainly
shouldn't be hoping for a recession. So
the best case scenario is that you grow
into the price levels in that you have a
couple of years where wage growth is a
little bit elevated. You start to see a
bit of a pickup, call it a little above
4%, and then prices remain largely
steady. So you don't really see a big
pick up in prices and you kind of grow
into the economy. At the same time,
people then might forget about the
prices that as they were before the
pandemic. I think that's part of the
problem. people remember what prices
were before the pandemic and they don't
necessarily take into account the fact
that their incomes have grown about 29%
since the pandemic as well but they do
see that prices have gone up pretty
significantly uh since then.
>> Do you think that the risk then for the
Federal Reserve is cutting rates could
actually reaccelerate inflation in a way
that goes counter to this?
>> Yeah, I think that that is a risk
especially when you're talking about
house prices is probably one of the the
areas that's the most unaffordable
today. If you see a big reduction in
rates and if the the government tries to
put in in place policies like the GSC's
buying uh more NBS and that lowers
mortgage spreads, you might see prices
start to pick up as a result. And that's
a challenge. By the way, $2,000 stimulus
checks that would have the same result.
>> What is a big reduction in rates?
Because some might argue we've had what
150 basis points in September of last
year and housing and shadow costs aren't
on the rise in a way that some people
might anticipate. So what is a big cut
to interest rates? Well, I would say
it's more a reduction in rates at the
same time the economy is starting to
pick up. The the rate the fall in rates
that we've seen recently has been
because the economy has slowed down. So
that's important distinction.
>> Exactly.
>> The jobs growth that you'd anticipate
alongside with that growth. Just
describe 2026 for us because 2025 has
actually been people talk down growth
for 2025 growth hasn't been that bad in
2025. What's been bad is the employment
growth. Why is 26 going to be different?
>> So it should be a little bit better.
We're talking our forecast is for 80,000
payrolls growth for next year. It's not
as if it's anything compared to what
we've seen the last couple of years, but
relative to break even or the break even
pace, our estimate for 26 is about
70,000. For 25, it was closer to 50,000.
And the reason is because immigration
was a lot stricter in 2025 than we
expect for 26. Still should be strict,
but less so at the margin. So, we're
talking about a payroll number that's
not that strong historically speaking,
but better than it's been. If you do see
some sort of reduction in the tariffs
and we've seen some marginal uh types of
moves around bananas and coffee and
things of that nature, if there is a
more significant roll back of certain
tariffs, do you think that that would
reacelerate the economy in a more
meaningful way?
>> Yeah, it certainly could. The challenge
with that is also then you might start
to see rates rise at the same time
because then you'll have an environment
where people might be a little bit more
concerned about the deficit and at the
same time you're just having natural
growth acceleration. Fed cuts would have
to get priced out. So that does pose
some challenges, but I think there
there's the the possibility that we'll
see an environment where tariffs get
rolled back marginally. But what we've
seen recently is it was on some a
products. So I think what we'll see is
the you know the occasional tariff
relief but not not enough to be
needlemoving in terms of the economy.
>> Can I ask you if your view changes with
the incoming Fed chair when you find out
who the new Fed chair is? How much does
that move the dial for you? So our
expectation is is Hasset, even though we
prefer Walt Waller, if we end up getting
someone like Hasset, I don't expect that
the the committee will change that much.
It's a committee of people that are very
divided at the moment, and that's likely
to even grow if we have a chair that's
seen as much more dovish than the rest
of the committee.
>> We prefer Waller. It's interesting. I
don't usually hear language like that
from economists on Wall Street. Why
would you prefer Waller, Governor
Waller?
>> He's a he's a much more independent
thinker. He is very data driven. He's
just somebody that the market very much
respects and I think that would be a
good candidate given the sort of the
list of
>> kind of implies that Kevin has it is not
the NEC director. Is that fair?
>> That's fair.
>> What gives you that impression?
is is he he myin they've they've they've
their comments have been suggesting that
you know rates are a lot more uh should
be a lot less restrictive than they
currently are there their commentary is
just much more in line with what the
president wants to hear and Waller is
somebody that's been long respected by
the market he's had views that are very
much data driven yes he's been more
dovish recently but it is backed by
conversations around the labor market
having slowed down concerns around
layoffs picking uh which is all very
fair and solid arguments. I'm a little
less concerned, but the the market I
think would would would very much cheer
having him as the the next chair.
>> You're not alone on this point. Talk to
a lot of people around the Federal
Reserve who have made the same point. In
fact, they go one step further. If the
president wants lower interest rates,
he'd be better off by getting Governor
Waller because he'd have more chance to
influence the rest of the committee to
come along with him and deliver lower
interest rates. Chris Waller is
considered more credible in markets as
an independent thinker. As Stephanie
just said, there also is a feeling that
he isn't necessarily going to take
orders from President Trump and so
people will view it more credibly on the
committee as well. He has a
long-standing history there. I wonder
how much that's going to be taken into
account when choosing the Fed chair.
>> Stephanie, good to see you. Thanks for
sharing your thoughts. Stephanie Roth
there of Wolf Research with an update on
news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. ADP's weekly jobless claims
report shows that US private payrolls
[music] fell an average of 2500 per week
over the 4-week period ending November
1st. It's a shallower drop [music] from
the from last week's figures, which
showed a decline of over 11,000. ADP
indicated that despite hiring having
slowed from earlier this year, new hires
are actually on the upswing. Meanwhile,
the US [music] is expediting visas for
foreign visitors with tickets to the
World Cup. President Donald Trump said
government's agencies are working to
ensure that soccer fans from around the
world are properly vetted and able to
come to the US next summer [music]
easily. World Cup matches will take
place in 11 US cities. And Toyota is
investing over $900 million to [music]
boost hybrid vehicle production in the
US. The project will center on hybrid
vehicles and component production across
five states. The move underscores
Toyota's bet that hybrids will dominate
US sales as consumers resist high EV
prices following the end of tax credits.
[music] That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Jason Tyler of North and Trust [music]
on why tech isn't in a bubble just yet.
[music]
>> [music]
>> There have been huge portions of our
market that have been squeezed out or
forgotten by, you know, this huge tech
[music] leadership. In fact, you know,
our best guess is that next year we're
going to see some nice return in
leadership to [music] financial services
as uh, you know, we get deregulation.
New leadership can emerge or at least
challenge uh some of these tech leaders.
Uh, and that to me is a very healthy
[music] stock market.
>> That was Lisa Shallot, the CIO of Morgan
Stanley Wealth Management, waging on the
stock market. The stock market this
morning, pulling back by 0.5% on the
S&P, down by 0.6 [music] on the NASDAQ.
A big week still to come. Your trading
diary is shaping up as follows. This
morning at 10 a.m. Eastern time, durable
goods at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time.
President Trump hosting the Saudi crown
prince at the White House on Wednesday,
Fed meeting minutes just around the
corner, plus results from Target and the
big one, [music] Nvidia. Thursday, a
delayed jobs report, plus earnings from
Walmart. And it's from Walmart getting a
little bit more interesting. Following
what we heard from Home Depot earlier
this morning,
>> they tra traditionally have been a
bellweather for consumer activity and
just appetite and it might [music] be
the cleanest read on just how much
consumers are willing to absorb higher
prices, how much they have to pass along
higher prices [music] and how much
affordability still is at the front and
center for so many people out there as
it does seem to be at least part of the
dialogue this morning. [music]
>> Another soft session this morning. We're
down by 0.5% so far. Resilience of the
AI narrative in question [music] as
valuation concerns grip Wall Street.
Jason Tyler, the wealth management
president at Northern Trust, writing,
"While there has been a lot of talk
about bubbles, we do not think the
technology sector is there yet." Jason
joins us now for more. Jason, welcome.
Thanks for making some time for us this
morning. Let's just set the table for
this conversation. What is a bubble? How
would you define one?
Well, first of all, it's good to at
least hear you, Jonathan, and uh so
thanks for having me on. You know,
bubbles are fundamentally when asset
prices get way above their fundamental
value. And I it's ironic you were
talking about the possible bubble here
in this sector. We just la literally
last night had our leadership team
together and we're talking about this
very dynamic and we tend to be very
fundamentally driven and so we're always
looking for ways to identify what's the
intrinsic value of an asset as opposed
to looking at just what the market might
be looking at and anticipating in terms
of momentum.
>> And Jason, what are you seeing?
Well, it it I think 6 12 months ago the
fundamentals looked better. And so now
we're more on bubble watch than bubble
call. That's the way we we talked about
it just last week. Every week we put out
five themes to our clients, to
investors. And ironically, one of those
five themes just this past week was that
to to be more on bubble watch. We're
certainly not calling it yet, but doing
a lot more analysis to make sure that
the asset prices of some of these
securities, some of these stocks aren't
getting too far in front of what we
think their intrinsic value is. And
you've got to go out pretty far in the
future to think about the earnings that
they're going to be developed and
discount those back to today to get
comfortable with where the valuations
are. But so far, we're not seeing a big
disconnect between those. I feel like
the word bubble sometimes distracts from
what a lot of people are talking about,
including you just now, Jason, which is
that people are pricing in a lot of
gains. They're going to take a lot
longer to take. And I'm looking at this
morning the fact that CloudFare outages
are causing chat GBT to go down uh and
things of that nature. And Cloudflare is
the company that you've never heard of
that controls a lot of websites across
the across the internet. I just wonder
how much the real world is not keeping
pace with the hopes and dreams of
artificial intelligence. Yeah, we
separate it in terms of two different
dynamics. One is what is what are the
implications going to be for us as
consumers, for us as just going about
our everyday life. And then secondly,
what are the value of these underlying
companies? And in the first, there's no
doubt that these dynamics are going to
have huge implications for the way we
come to work, for the way we do things.
But in in the second, we've got to be
cautious not to get too far too
optimistic about what these values could
actually create in these companies. That
said, you look at the infrastructure
that has to be developed to support the
technology that we're talking about and
it's going to be huge investments over
the next several years to make sure the
infrastructure is there to support
what's happening.
>> How much Jason does this really affect
where you think the potential profits
are from your own investor portfolio? is
the idea of is it utilities, is it the
energy structures, is it something other
than maybe the traditional AI plays that
have gotten the most attention. you
know, the the thing that comes to mind
for me a lot. I grew up trained more in
the Buffett school of thought and
looking for moes and looking for
barriers to entry and and frankly
they're a little they're hard to find in
this sector and you know so scale may be
one of them but that's got to be proven
out and so otherwise you're trying to
look for what are some of the longerterm
advantages these companies have to be
able to drive earnings to justify
obviously the big multiples that we're
looking at today. Jason, just before you
go, what's the big call from you and the
team as you sit around the table and
start thinking about 2026 and beyond?
What are you actually excited about
right now?
>> You know, you know, John, what I'm
excited about, we didn't get a chance to
dive into it today, but the number of
companies that are publicly traded is
declining. The number of privately held
companies that are investable that have
more than $und00 million of revenue,
it's increasing dramatically. And so
what I'm excited about is our ability to
help clients find those companies more
in the private markets and find ways to
to create shareholder value for looking
at things that might not be on our
screens every day. But our our team is
doing research looking for those types
of companies.
>> Jason, because of the high-profile
blowups, at least over the last few
months, there haven't been many, but
they've been high-profile. Has it
tempered some enthusiasm to go into
those markets of the investors that you
cover? Yeah, we I I have to acknowledge
it's a that's a that's a great thing to
bring up, John, that that and and I
think it the first derivative on it or
even the second derivative is it's
harder to raise money in those spaces
right now. And so it's giving you an
indication that you've got to be more
cautious and we're always back to
looking for fundamental value, not
looking to just pile money and and and
steer investors in one direction all the
time. This is about giving investors
access to a broader array of investment
opportunities and and giving them a
chance to diversify and make sure
they're not missing on where some
shareholder value is being created.
>> Jason, this was great. It's good to see
you hopefully in person next time. Thank
you, sir. Jason Tyler there of Northern
Trust on the AI situation and whether
it's a bubble or not.
>> Yeah, the idea of what is a bubble is a
good way to begin the conversation since
everyone seems to define it a little bit
differently. It does seem like maybe the
word bubble has gotten us away from
actually looking at what are the
appropriate valuations for some of these
companies and how far do we need to see
visibility because certainly there is
really profound change and and positive
efficiencies that can come from some of
this technology. It just is harder to
extrapolate out in a clean line and I
think that that's really what you're
hearing from a lot of investors.
>> A lot is built on Nvidia. A lot is built
on Alphabet on Microsoft and there's
real money there, real profit, real
revenue growth. We can see that and
we'll see that in the numbers when they
deliver them tomorrow. It's about
whether this whole story is built on
other parts of the ecosystem, the weaker
parts, the more leverage balance sheets,
the promises that aren't backed up by
revenue right now. They're the hopes and
dreams. Is that where things are out of
sync at the moment?
>> Which is the reason why people are
looking at things like OpenAI and
Coreeave and some of the others applied
digital that backs up Coreeave. Just to
take a step back, it does seem like
things are accelerating in a world that
relies on the physical infrastructure.
And that's the reason why I thought
Cloudflare was so interesting. It's the
company you haven't heard of that gets a
lot of websites to the internet. And it
raises this issue of where are the
fragilities right now in the ecosystem
that will get exposed and be roadblocks
for this chain into progression that
could potentially delay things and
potentially delay the promise of some of
the profits.
>> We all just wanted an easy smooth glide
path into year end. A nice little mount
up, a Santa rally, [music] call it a
year and walk away. And this market's
just not letting us right now, is it?
>> Some people are really excited. You know
the bears, the bulls, people who are
trying to they had five minutes to come
out [music] and now they're being scared
back.
>> Coming up on the program, Julian Emanuel
of Evore, Alicia Lavine of BMY, Libby
Cantrol of Pimco, Francis Donald of RBC.
They'll join us tomorrow morning from
New York City this morning. Good morning
to you all. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. Have a wonderful day and
we'll see you tomorrow morning.